Title: 2026.findings-acl.1542.pdf

URL Source: https://aclanthology.org/2026.findings-acl.1542.pdf

Published Time: Thu, 11 Jun 2026 02:31:41 GMT

Number of Pages: 15

Markdown Content:
> Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2026 , pages 30842–30856 July 2-7, 2026 ©2026 Association for Computational Linguistics

## Safety Sidecar: Reflection-Driven Runtime Control for Safer Agents 

Bin Wang 1, Jiazheng Quan 2, Xingrui Yu 3,∗, Hansen Hu 1, Hao Yu 1,Anjun Gao 5, Zhenglin Wan 6, Hui Li 1,* , Ivor Tsang 3,41School of Computer Science, Peking University, China 

> 2

Key Laboratory of Multimedia Trusted Perception and Efficient Computing, Ministry of Education of China, Xiamen University, China 

> 3

CFAR and IHPC, Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore 

> 4

College of Computing and Data Science, Nanyang Technological University 

> 5

Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Louisville, United States 

> 6

Department of Computer Science, National University of Singapore 

Abstract 

Autonomous LLM agents are increasingly de-ployed in complex environments as tool-using systems. However, their safety remains fragile, as minor reasoning or retrieval errors can be am-plified into hazardous actions within the agentic workflow. Existing defenses, often limited to static prompts or post-hoc guardrails, fail to pro-vide runtime intervention or cross-architecture portability. In this paper, we propose Safety Sidecar , a model-agnostic, plug-and-play mod-ule designed to provide standardized runtime safety control and auditability for arbitrary agent workflows. Safety Sidecar operational-izes reflection as a closed-loop controller: it dynamically monitors decision traces, retrieves evidence-based repair exemplars from a reflec-tive memory, and enforces risk-mitigating re-visions before execution. Crucially, it employs external verifiers to gate both action release and memory updates, producing a transparent, au-ditable trail of retrieved evidence and applied constraints.We instantiate and systematically evaluate Safety Sidecar in secure code genera-tion—a high-stakes domain with objective vul-nerability signals. Experimental results across eight CWE scenarios and four representative LLMs demonstrate that Safety Sidecar con-sistently improves the secure-solution rate by 2.9–11.2 percentage points while maintaining competitive functional correctness. Efficiency analysis shows the framework is practical for deployment, with reflection adding only 3.2s to end-to-end latency and a negligible average cost of 5.37 × 10 −4 per scenario. Our findings position Safety Sidecar as a portable and ef-ficient control layer for enhancing the safety, compliance, and auditability of LLM-based agents. 

1 Introduction 

Autonomous LLM agents are rapidly evolving from single-turn text generators into systems that exe-

> *Corresponding Authors: Xingrui Yu, Hui Li. (E-mail: yu_xingrui@a-star.edu.sg, lih64@pkusz.edu.cn)

cute long-horizon, multi-step tasks, invoke exter-nal tools, and make decisions that affect the real world (Chowa et al., 2025; Erdogan et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025g). This shift tightly couples in-ternal reasoning with external actions : agents can browse at scale, call APIs, and modify external ar-tifacts, exhibiting compositional capabilities across tasks (Wang et al., 2025a). As a result, the design space is expanding quickly—planning, memory, retrieval, and tool orchestration are increasingly treated as first-class components (Koubaa, 2025; Zeng et al., 2025)—while the challenges of safety, control, and evaluation become substantially more acute (Lian et al., 2025). In parallel, as long-term memory, proactive planning, and environment inter-action become core ingredients, agentic AI is mov-ing from a single-model reasoner to a distributed workflow of cooperating modules (Wang et al., 2025b). This transformation is reshaping the gen-erative AI community and has sparked broad dis-cussions about agent safety and governance (Park et al., 2023; Abou Ali et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025d). A key lesson from early deployments is that many safety failures in agentic systems do not 

stem from the base model merely “being wrong” in isolation. Rather, the agent workflow amplifies small deviations into executable consequences . A minor retrieval error, a mistaken threat-model as-sumption, or an overly-permissive action choice can propagate through the plan–retrieve–execute loop, producing unsafe intermediate artifacts or triggering hazardous tool calls. Even strong mod-els can mishandle APIs, misunderstand security boundaries, or generate insecure patterns. Once tool use and autonomy are introduced, adversar-ial techniques such as jailbreaks, prompt injection, and agent worms can further enter the execution loop —controlling actions, polluting context, or in-ducing unsafe tool invocations—thereby turning natural-language inputs and intermediate artifacts 

30842 into attack vectors (John et al., 2025). Existing defenses face two structural tensions in this setting. First, after-the-fact safeguards are often too late (Shahriar et al., 2025; Ferrag et al., 2025). Post-hoc filtering or scanning cannot undo side effects once a tool call has executed, an exter-nal state has been modified, or sensitive resources have been accessed; moreover, polluted interme-diate artifacts can be written into long-term mem-ory and repeatedly exploited in future runs. Sec-ond, stacking more safeguards does not general-ize gracefully . Heavy-weight rule stacks, intercep-tors, or bespoke validators are often tightly coupled to specific tools and task distributions; they can break when ported across agent architectures and domains, incur substantial overhead, and may erode the very autonomy that agents are built to provide. Together, these tensions point to a missing capa-bility: we need a workflow-native, runtime safety control mechanism (Wang et al., 2025c)—one that intervenes before risky actions occur, while remain-ing lightweight and portable (Wang et al., 2025e; Wibowo and Polyzos, 2025; Zhan et al., 2025). In light of this gap, we identify two core challenges for trustworthy agent workflows. (i) Credible control at decision time: how can we constrain an agent at runtime , so that risky be-haviors—especially unsafe tool calls or external writes—are detected and corrected before they exe-cute? (ii) Verifiability and auditability: how can we record the evidence and decision steps that lead to actions and artifacts, enabling transparency and accountability after the fact? To address these challenges, we propose Safety Sidecar (SS) (Figure 1), a standardized, plug-and-play module that can be attached to the tail of ar-bitrary agents. Rather than acting as a passive out-put filter, SS turns reflection into a first-class run-time control loop that intervenes within the agent’s decision–action cycle. Concretely, SS (1) performs lightweight self-checking to route risky steps, (2) retrieves evidence-based repair exemplars and se-curity guidance from a dynamic reflective memory, (3) generates reflective repairs before execution ,and (4) uses external verifiers to gate both action execution and memory write-back. This yields a closed loop of risk detection → reflective repair →

verification → memory update , together with an auditable trail of intermediate decisions and sup-porting evidence. Importantly, Safety Sidecar is designed for porta-bility: it requires only a minimal integration inter-face to intercept an agent’s action/output channel, and can therefore be incorporated into diverse agent architectures and application domains. To con-cretely validate the system-level benefits of sidecar-style runtime control, we instantiate and evaluate Safety Sidecar in secure code generation—a high-stakes testbed with strict executability constraints and objective vulnerability signals (e.g., compila-tion, testing, and static analysis). Experiments show that, compared to strong baseline agents, attach-ing Safety Sidecar consistently improves security and traceability while preserving competitive func-tional correctness and modest overhead. In this paper, we make the following contribu-tions: • A standardized, plug-and-play reflective 

control module for agent workflows. We design and implement a modular component that integrates risk-aware routing, reflection-driven repair, and audit logging, enabling proactive intervention within the agent loop rather than relying solely on post-hoc filtering. • Verifier-grounded reflective memory up-dates for reliable self-correction. We couple evidence retrieval with reflective repair and 

gate memory write-back using external veri-fiers, so that only validated repairs are retained as reusable experience, improving stability across repeated runs and reducing recurring failure patterns. • A fully verifiable instantiation and rig-orous end-to-end evaluation in secure code generation. We instantiate the mod-ule with lightweight self-checking and tool-governance verifiers (compilation, tests, and CodeQL), and provide comprehensive exper-iments, ablations, and failure analyses under executable and vulnerability-grounded met-rics. 

2 Related Work 

Trustworthiness in Agentic Workflows As LLM agents evolve into autonomous decision-makers, ensuring the trustworthiness of their out-puts becomes paramount (Han et al., 2024; Yu et al., 2025). Beyond external attacks, systemic risks such as coordination failures in multi-agent architectures (David and Gervais, 2025; de Witt, 2025; Shen et al., 2025) and unintended tool misuse (Achiam et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2024) threaten reliability. 30843 Frameworks like THOR (Narajala and Narayan, 2025) highlight these vulnerabilities, where even safety-aligned models can exhibit misalignment (Huang et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023) or succumb to manipulation (John et al., 2025; Lee and Tiwari, 2024; Kartik et al., 2025), underscoring the need for robust internal control mechanisms. 

Verifiable Control and Self-Correction To en-hance output reliability, research is shifting to-wards intrinsic trust mechanisms under frameworks like TRiSM (Raza et al., 2025). Approaches range from input-layer "self-reminders" (Xie et al., 2023) and refusal training (Yuan et al., 2024; Gou et al., 2023; Ma et al., 2025) to hierarchical monitoring (Wang et al., 2025f) and least-privilege enforce-ment (Debenedetti et al., 2025). However, existing methods often lack interpretability (Sanwal, 2025), and benchmarks like RAS-Eval (Fu et al., 2025) and CyberSOCEval (Deason et al., 2025) reveal gaps in task control. Our work advances verifiable autonomy (Bouzenia et al., 2024; Guo et al., 2025; Miculicich et al., 2025) by embedding a closed-loop reflection module for transparent, evidence-based self-correction. 

3 Problem Formulation and Design Goals 

Evaluation setting. To systematically evaluate the trustworthiness of code generation agents, we build a standardized, plug-and-play module that can be inserted into general agentic orchestration and use it to construct a baseline code-generation agent architecture as our benchmark (Figure 1(a)). This paper focuses on improving the safety and trustworthiness of the code repair stage within such agentic pipelines. 

Secure code repair. Given a code snippet x that may contain security flaws, together with its contex-tual environment, which includes file-level context 

Cf and function-level context Cf n . The goal is to generate a repaired snippet y that simultaneously satisfies: 1. Security : eliminate common vulnerability classes present in x, such as SQL injec-tion, command injection, buffer overflow, path traversal, XSS, null pointer dereference, inte-ger overflow, and use-after-free. 2. Functionality : preserve the intended seman-tics of x under the given context (Cf , C f n ),i.e., the patch should not change program be-havior except to remove unsafe behaviors. 3. Executability : ensure y is syntactically valid and can be compiled or interpreted in the tar-get environment implied by (Cf , C f n ).We formalize this task as conditional generation augmented with retrieval-based evidence: 

y = G(x, C f , C f n , R(x, C f , C f n ; M), θ ) (1) where G denotes the large language model (LLM) generator, R is a retrieval function that returns a set of security-repair exemplars and/or security con-straints from a memory repository M, and θ rep-resents model and prompting parameters. The role of R is to provide actionable and auditable repair evidence, rather than relying only on the model’s parametric knowledge. 

Design goals. Based on the formulation above, we aim to support autonomous and trustworthy LLM-based code repair in an agentic setting. Con-cretely, the module used in our pipeline is designed to meet the following goals: (G1 ) High Security Efficacy : reduce (i) the post-repair vulnerability rate and (ii) the policy-violation rate of generated patches, while avoiding regressions that reintroduce known insecure patterns. (G2 ) Verifiability : for each repair, output struc-tured, machine-verifiable audit evidence. (G3 ) Lightweight Integration : provide these guar-antees without requiring complex planning or model fine-tuning, so the module can be inte-grated into existing coding agents as a plug-and-play component with low overhead. 

4 Safety Sidecar: Architecture and Implementation 

We instantiate the R EFLEX module as the Reflect layer of an agentic framework, where reflection functions as a first-class control circuit supervis-ing planning, execution, and verification. It is inte-grated into the end-to-end code generation pipeline as a modular, pluggable component. The main workflow is: 1. Lightweight self-check (routing). A fast pre-checker screens the candidate artifact pro-duced by the agent to avoid unnecessary re-flection when risks are unlikely. 30844 2. Evidence-guided reflective repair. If the can-didate is judged unsafe , the system retrieves high-value prior cases and security guidance from a reflective memory, and composes them into a structured reflection prompt that steers the model to produce an evidence-grounded repair before execution .3. Verification and deposition. The candidate output is filtered and compilation-checked; verified artifacts are then written back to mem-ory, forming a continuously evolving knowl-edge loop. To clarify the verification process, Safety Side-car follows a two-stage design with distinct roles. The Lightweight Self-Checker serves only as a rout-ing mechanism that reduces unnecessary compu-tation by filtering low-risk cases. The final deci-sion on whether an output is safe is determined exclusively by external verification, including com-pilation checks and static analysis tools such as CodeQL, which avoids self-confirmation bias and ensures that all accepted outputs satisfy objective and verifiable safety criteria. This design realizes a closed loop of low-cost routing , evidence-driven repair , and verifier-gated experience accumulation , without fine-tuning the underlying models. Building on this design, we implement Safety Sidecar (Figure 1) with three core components:(i) a Lightweight Self-Checker ,(ii) a Reflective Prompt Engine , and (iii) a Reflective Memory Repository . The process can be formulated as:            

> (x, c, M D)Reflex
> −−−−→
> {
> (fθ(x, c ), M D∪ { (x, c )}),C= 1 (fθ(Φ) , M D∪ { (x, c, y, E )}),C= 0 , V = 1
> (2)

where x denotes the input code, c its contex-tual information, and MD the dynamic reflective memory. fθ is a frozen base language model. The lightweight self-checker C ∈ { 0, 1} routes the in-put as safe ( 1) or unsafe ( 0). Safe inputs are di-rectly processed and stored in MD. For unsafe in-puts, relevant prior experiences are retrieved as 

E = Retrieve (MD, M S , q ) with q = ( x, c ), and incorporated by the reflective prompt constructor 

Φ together with best-practice constraints K. The generated output y is written back to memory only if it passes the verifier V .

4.1 Lightweight Self-Check and Routing Mechanism 

The Lightweight Self-Checker serves as a front-end routing layer for Safety Sidecar, providing an initial safety assessment with minimal overhead.Its goal is not to fully diagnose vulnerabilities, but to cheaply decide whether the candidate artifact should pass through directly or enter the more ex-pensive reflection-and-repair stage. We implement self-checking as a binary deci-sion based on an LLM. Given the candidate x and context c, the system constructs a concise safety-review prompt psc and instructs the model to output only a binary verdict: “SAFE” or “UNSAFE”: verdict = LLM {SAFE , UNSAFE } (psc | x, c ) (3) If the verdict is determined as “SAFE”, the sam-ple and its metadata are directly written into the dynamic memory repository as a retained safe case. Conversely, if the verdict is “UNSAFE”, the sys-tem triggers the full reflection and repair pipeline, where the reflection prompt engine (introduced in section 4.2) performs in-depth code diagnosis and correction. This mechanism effectively routes trustworthy responses without redundant reflection processes, thereby reducing the average inference cost of the system. It is particularly advantageous for large-scale task processing scenarios, where efficient fil-tering and resource allocation are critical. 

4.2 Reflective Prompt Engine 

The Reflective Prompt Engine serves as the central module of the reflection process, enabling the agent to conduct in-depth analysis and self-improvement on problematic code identified in the first step (self-check). When a code segment is classified as “UN-SAFE” and enters the reflection phase, the engine constructs a structured multi-turn prompt that trans-forms a single code-generation task into a multi-round chain-of-thought reflection dialogue. During this process, the model is guided to con-duct systematic introspection and reasoning on the problematic code and its context, identifying vulnerabilities and devising corresponding repair strategies. This multi-turn reflective dialogue en-sures that the complete reasoning chain, which spans from problem recognition to solution im-plementation, is explicitly unfolded and recorded. 30845 Prompt Composition 

Prompt 2(p₂) :Explain the cause and suggest a safe alternative. 

Model Response 2(r₂) :The issue comes from unchecked copying. Use strlcpy() or 

snprintf() to limit copied bytes and prevent overflow. 

Lightweight self-check The Human Developer 

How to securely copy strings to buffers ? 

Evidence-guided repair Verification and deposition Memory Repository 

SAFE UNSAFE 

SAFE PENDING 

Reflex Agent Framework Lightweight Self-Check 

code context prompt 

Safety-Prompt Construction 

SAFE 

UNSAFE 

Binary Verdict Generation 

strlcpy(buffer, message, sizeof(buffer) - 1); buffer[sizeof(buffer) - 1] = '\0'; 

strcpy(buffer, message); 

printf("%s\n", buffer); return 0; 

⼁

…

Reflective Prompt Engine Reflective Memory Repository 

Round 1: Vul. Identification 

Prompt 1(p₁) :Identify potential security risks in the code. 

Model Response 1(r₁): 

The call strcpy(buffer, message); is unsafe — it may cause a buffer overflow because it lacks boundary checks. Round 2: Cause and Mitigation Round 3: Secure Code Revision 

Prompt 3(p₃) :Rewrite the code to eliminate the risk. 

Model Response 3(r₃) :

<safe_code> The revised version ensures memory safety by limiting copy length and explicitly null-terminating the buffer. 

> Memory Repository
> Dynamic Memory
> Memory Repository
> Static Memory
> High-relevance, recent repair cases
> Foundational security knowledge
> Hierarchical Retrieval Process
> Return to Agent Orchestration

Planner Agent  

> Task Understanding Subtask Decomposition

Code Generation Agent 

Extract Agent 

> Result Extraction Code Validation

General Agent Orchestration 

> Code Generate

Reflex Agent ( Std. Module )

Reflex Agent ( Std. Module )

Std. Module 

Reflective Prompt Engine 

…

Lightweight self-check Reflective Memory Repository 

Multi-Agent 

…

Plug-and-play (a) Safety Sidecar as a plug-and-play, tail-attached module in general agent orchestration. Prompt 2(p₂) :Explain the cause and suggest a safe alternative. 

Model Response 2(r₂) :The issue comes from unchecked copying. Use strlcpy() or 

snprintf() to limit copied bytes and prevent overflow. 

Lightweight self-check Reflex Agent ( Std. Module )The Human Developer 

How to securely copy strings to buffers ? 

Evidence-guided repair Verification and deposition Memory Repository 

SAFE UNSAFE 

SAFE PENDING 

Reflex Agent Framework Lightweight Self-Check 

code context prompt 

Safety-Prompt Construction 

SAFE 

UNSAFE 

Binary Verdict Generation 

strlcpy(buffer, message, sizeof(buffer) - 1); buffer[sizeof(buffer) - 1] = '\0'; 

strcpy(buffer, message); 

printf("%s\n", buffer); return 0; 

⼁

…

Reflective Prompt Engine Reflective Memory Repository 

Round 1: Vul. Identification 

Prompt 1(p₁) :Identify potential security risks in the code. 

Model Response 1(r₁): 

The call strcpy(buffer, message); is unsafe — it may cause a buffer overflow because it lacks boundary checks. Round 2: Cause and Mitigation Round 3: Secure Code Revision 

Prompt 3(p₃) :Rewrite the code to eliminate the risk. 

Model Response 3(r₃) :

<safe_code> The revised version ensures memory safety by limiting copy length and explicitly null-terminating the buffer. 

> Memory Repository
> Dynamic Memory
> Memory Repository
> Static Memory
> High-relevance, recent repair cases
> Foundational security knowledge
> Hierarchical Retrieval Process
> Return to Agent Orchestration

Planner Agent  

> Task Understanding Subtask Decomposition

Code Generation Agent 

> Prompt Composition Code Generate

Extract Agent 

…

> Result Extraction Code Validation

General Agent Orchestration 

(b) Overall framework of Safety Sidecar. 

Figure 1: (a) Plug-and-play integration of Safety Sidecar within a general agent workflow. (b) The internal design of Safety Sidecar, highlighting lightweight routing, reflective repair, and verifier-gated memory updates. 

Therefore, this strategy achieves knowledge distil-lation for code generation tasks. Under the operation of the Reflective Prompt Engine, the resulting structured reflection records are systematically stored in the dynamic memory repository. In essence, each resolved case is ele-vated into a reusable reasoning pattern, offering high-quality reference for future related issues. As more solutions and reflective processes accumulate, the system’s knowledge base evolves continuously, enhancing both the quality of stored knowledge and the agent’s adaptive capability in subsequent tasks. This growing body of experience strengthens the overall trustworthiness and transparency of the intelligent agent framework. 

4.3 Reflective Memory Repository 

The Reflective Memory Repository is the central component enabling the system’s continual learn-ing and experience reuse. By integrating vectorized retrieval with structured metadata management, it constructs a dynamically evolving knowledge base for safety repair and reflection. To balance retrieval efficiency with comprehen-sive knowledge coverage, we design a hierarchical retrieval architecture composed of two layers: • Dynamic Memory MD: Implemented with a ChromaDB vector database to store and index verified repair cases produced during system operation. This design choice facilitates high relevance and low retrieval latency. • Static Memory MS : Built from predefined se-cure coding standards, vulnerability databases, and other static knowledge artifacts, serving as the system’s foundational knowledge anchor to ensure completeness of core principles. Given a query q composed of the current prob-lematic code x and its context c, the hierarchical retrieval process Retrieve (MD, M S , q ) is formally defined as follows: 

E = Retrieve (MD, M S , q )=

{

Top-k from MD, if condition 

Top-k from MD ∪ MS , otherwise (4) Here, E denotes the final set of retrieved ex-periences, |EMD | represents the number of re-sults recalled from MD, sim (·) denotes the co-sine similarity function, kmin is the minimum re-call threshold, and θ is the lower bound for sim-ilarity. The condition is defined as |EMD | ≥

kmin and max( sim (EMD , q )) ≥ θ.This retrieval strategy prioritizes high-value, high-relevance, and recent experiences from MD,30846 ensuring that the system can rapidly reuse validated contextual knowledge. When the dynamic memory fails to meet retrieval requirements, such as insuf-ficient results or low similarity scores, the system automatically falls back to the static memory MS

for supplementary queries, thus maintaining both adaptivity and knowledge completeness in the over-all reflection framework. 

5 Experiments 

To comprehensively evaluate Safety Sidecar , we conduct experiments to answer four research ques-tions: RQ1 measures trustworthiness improve-ments in terms of safety and functional correctness; 

RQ2 studies how reflection depth, defined as the number of repair iterations, affects performance and where diminishing returns appear; RQ3 ana-lyzes the contribution of key components through ablation studies; and RQ4 quantifies the economic and latency overhead introduced by the sidecar. Fur-ther analysis on system behavior and portability is provided in Appendix C. 

5.1 Benchmark 

To evaluate the improvements brought by the Safety Sidecar in code generation safety and re-liability, we selected a set of challenging scenar-ios from the most influential Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) categories. We adopted the dataset validated by (He and Vechev, 2023), which covers eight representative scenarios drawn from MITRE’s list of the Top 25 Most Dangerous Soft-ware Weaknesses. The specific scenarios can be found in Table 8 of Appendix A. Each CWE scenario includes two to three care-fully designed programming environments, refined by He et al. to eliminate low-quality prompts and to emulate a variety of real-world code completion tasks. This makes the dataset a powerful bench-mark for assessing a model’s ability to generate secure and trustworthy code. The tasks involve in-complete C/C++ or Python code prompts, challeng-ing the model to produce appropriate completions that demonstrate its capacity to handle partial or ambiguous inputs in practical programming con-texts.For every model, 25 code samples are gener-ated per scenario and repeated across five indepen-dent runs to minimize experimental variance and ensure objective evaluation. All generated code samples are analyzed using the static analysis tool CodeQL (Szabó, 2023) to detect vulnerabilities and assess the impact of gen-erated repairs. In addition, we employ a trustwor-thy safety compliance evaluation system based on LLM judges to assess code quality, security, and compliance, which complements traditional SAST tools by covering aspects of trustworthiness that static analyzers cannot fully capture. 

5.2 Metrics 

To comprehensively evaluate the proposed method across the three key dimensions of code safety, functionality, and practicality, we define a unified evaluation framework that integrates both quantita-tive and qualitative metrics. In Appendix B, Table 9 and Table 10 define the full evaluation protocol used in this work. Ta-ble 9 reports the quantitative metrics used for all models, capturing (i) whether the model can gen-erate code that actually builds, (ii) whether that code is functionally correct, and (iii) whether that code is secure under static analysis. All percentage-based metrics are computed only over compilable samples, so they reflect realistic, runnable code rather than idealized snippets. Table 10 comple-ments this with qualitative dimensions of produc-tion readiness: overall engineering quality (read-ability, modularity, maintainability), defensive com-pleteness against common exploit patterns, and pol-icy / privacy compliance. Each compiled sample is reviewed along these axes, allowing us to surface risks that automated scanners such as CodeQL may not fully capture. 

5.3 RQ1: Effectiveness Improvement Analysis 

To verify the effectiveness of the Safety Sidecar in enhancing the code safety and functional reliabil-ity of the base agents, we conducted a systematic evaluation across four mainstream LLMs. The ex-periments covered eight key CWE vulnerability categories, each containing 2–3 specific program-ming scenarios. For each model and scenario, 25 code samples were generated and tested over five independent experimental runs to ensure statistical significance of the results. Integrating the Safety Sidecar yields substan-tial improvements in code trustworthiness. As de-tailed in Table 1, the Reflex-augmented agents consistently outperform their base counterparts in Security Rate (Sec.Rate) across all tested LLMs. The gains are particularly striking for models with weaker initial safety profiles; for instance, qwen3-coder-plus and gpt-4o achieved dramatic increases 30847 Table 1: Safety Sidecar performance summary.                                                    

> Metric gpt-3.5-turbo gpt-4o qwen3-coder-plus gemini-2.5-pro
> Base Base+Sidecar Base Base+Sidecar Base Base+Sidecar Base Base+Sidecar Sec. Count 23.4 24.1 ( ↑0.7 )21.4 23.8 ( ↑2.4 )17.9 23.7 ( ↑5.8 )22.0 24.3 ( ↑2.3 )Unres. Count 3.0 1.9 ( ↓1.1) 1.2 1.3 ( ↑0.1 )3.3 4.8 ( ↑1.5 )2.1 1.3 ( ↓0.8) Eff. Total 22.0 23.1 ( ↑1.1 )23.8 23.7 ( ↓0.1) 21.6 20.2 ( ↓1.4) 22.9 23.7 ( ↑0.8 )Pass Rate(%) 88.0 92.4 ( ↑4.4 )95.2 94.9 ( ↓0.3) 86.7 80.1 ( ↓6.6) 91.4 94.9 ( ↑3.5 )Sec. Rate(%) 93.7 96.6 ( ↑2.9 )85.7 95.0 ( ↑9.3 )83.7 94.9 ( ↑11.2 )88.0 97.1 ( ↑9.1 )

of 11.2% and 9.3%, respectively. Even for the high-performing gpt-3.5-turbo, the module delivered a further 2.9% enhancement. Importantly, the Reflex module acts as a powerful equalizer: it elevates diverse base models—regardless of their initial ca-pabilities—to a uniformly high security standard (ranging from 94.9% to 97.1%), thereby validating its robustness and model-agnostic effectiveness. 

Cross-Domain Generalization. While the pri-mary evaluation focuses on secure code generation, this choice is driven by its strict correctness con-straints and the availability of verifiable safety sig-nals such as compilation and static analysis. How-ever, the underlying mechanism of Safety Sidecar is not limited to code-specific tasks. The framework applies to diverse agent work-flows. In such settings, outputs can first be inter-cepted before execution. Meanwhile, external veri-fication signals can be incorporated to assess inter-mediate results. In addition, corrective exemplars can be used to guide refinement. To examine its transferability, we further eval-uate Safety Sidecar on HotpotQA , a multi-hop question answering benchmark that requires rea-soning and retrieval, which are core capabilities in general agent systems. As shown in Table 2, the Sidecar consistently improves both Exact Match and F1. 

Table 2: Cross-domain evaluation on HotpotQA. Safety Sidecar yields consistent improvements in Exact Match and F1, suggesting its potential applicability beyond code generation.         

> Model EM (%) F1 (%)
> GPT-4o 60.00 75.90 GPT-4o + Sidecar 62.00 ↑2.00 78.26 ↑2.36

These results indicate that the Sidecar gener-alizes beyond code generation and improves out-put quality in reasoning-intensive tasks. Compared with the code domain, the gains are more moderate, which reflects the different nature of safety signals. In code generation, safety violations are explicitly detectable through patterns such as CWE, whereas in question answering, improvements are reflected in enhanced factual accuracy without clear binary verification signals. Overall, these findings suggest that Safety Side-car applies to a broad class of tool-augmented generation pipelines. Its effectiveness depends on the availability of reliable verification mechanisms, which determine the quality and consistency of the refinement process across different tasks. 

5.4 RQ2: Reflection Depth and Diminishing Returns 

To explore the relationship between the depth of reflection (i.e., number of iterative rounds) and the corresponding performance gains, as well as to identify potential points of diminishing returns, we conducted multi-round iterative experiments and continuously monitored key performance indica-tors. 

The dynamic memory repository within the reflection mechanism serves as the core driver of performance improvement. To investigate the source of these gains, we analyzed the evolution of the dynamic RAG subsystem. As illustrated in Figure 2, the system exhibits clear knowledge accu-mulation. The average retrieval similarity (Figure 2a) rose from 0.850 to 0.980 across five runs, while the retrieval success rate (Figure 2b) reached 100% by Run 4. This convergence confirms the formation of a self-sustaining safety knowledge base. 

Retrieval quality is strongly correlated with repair effectiveness. We further examined the rela-tionship between document similarity in retrieval and the accuracy of security repairs (see Table 3). The data reveal a clear positive correlation: when the retrieved document’s similarity exceeded the 0.70 threshold, the corresponding repair accuracy 30848 Figure 2: Evolution of dynamic RAG retrieval perfor-mance.               

> R1 R2 R3 R4 R5
> 0.7
> 0.8
> 0.9
> 1
> Similarity
> (a) Similarity Band
> R1 R2 R3 R4 R5
> 0
> 50
> 100
> Rate (%)
> (b) Success & Fallback
> 22.53
> 0.85
> 0.9
> 0.95
> R1
> R2 R3 R4 R5
> Avg. Docs
> Avg. Sim
> (c) Cost–Quality
> R1 R2 R3 R4 R5
> 2
> 2.5
> 3
> Iteration
> Avg. Docs
> (d) Retrieval Depth

Table 3: Distribution of retrieved document quality across similarity intervals.                      

> Sim. Range Docs Ratio FixAcc
> 0.95–1.00 187 62.3% 100% 0.85–0.95 73 24.3% 98.6% 0.70–0.85 32 10.7% 93.8%
> <0.70 82.7% 75.0%
> Note: Sim. Range denotes the cosine similarity interval; Docs
> is the number of retrieved documents in each interval; Ratio is the proportion among all retrieved samples; and FixAcc is the security patch generation accuracy associated with documents in that interval.

reached over 93.8%. In contrast, for documents with similarity below 0.70, the accuracy dropped to 75.0%. Notably, within the high-similarity range (0.95–1.00), the repair accuracy achieved 100%, indicating perfect alignment between retrieved ex-periences and the current task. 

Knowledge accumulation reaches saturation around the fourth iteration. Analysis of the dy-namic RAG subsystem (see Table 4) shows that retrieval performance stabilized after Run 4. This indicates that once approximately 100 high-quality samples (4 rounds × 25 scenarios) were accumu-lated, the dynamic memory repository reached a state of knowledge saturation , effectively covering the majority of retrieval demands. This phase is critical for building a robust memory base. 

Inference efficiency peaks early, with risks of over-correction in later stages. However, from an inference perspective, code quality does not scale linearly with memory size. As shown in Table 4, the Security Fix Rate peaked at 92.0% as early as Run 1 and Run 3, but notably dropped to 84.0% in Run 4 despite higher retrieval similarity. This fluctuation suggests a risk of over-correction : as 

Table 4: Evolution of code generation quality across iterations in the framework.                      

> Iteration Pass.Rate (%) Sec.Rate (%) Avg.Sim
> Run 1 96.0 92.0 0.85 Run 2 100.0 88.0 0.95 Run 3 92.0 92.0 0.96 Run 4 92.0 84.0 0.97 Run 5 96.0 88.0 0.98
> Avg. 95.2 88.8 0.94

the retrieved context becomes overly dense, the model may introduce unnecessary complexity or regress on edge cases. 

A single round of reflection is optimal for de-ployment. Our fine-grained analysis reveals that the first reflection round already captures approxi-mately 90% of the critical repair patterns by lever-aging the top-ranked retrieved cases. Subsequent rounds mainly refine non-critical aspects—such as style consistency—while contributing little to core security. This leads to a practical design insight: while a "warm-up" phase of ∼4 rounds is benefi-cial for populating the memory, the deployed agent operates most efficiently with a single reflection round , striking the best balance between perfor-mance (92.0% Sec.Rate) and computational cost. 

5.5 RQ3: Ablation Study on Core Components 

To analyze the contribution of each component in Safety Sidecar, we conduct ablation experiments on two key modules, namely the Lightweight Self-Checker and the Dynamic Memory Repository. The evaluation follows the same experimental setup as in RQ1. 

Table 5: Ablation results on core components measured by Security Rate (%).                

> Model w/o Mem. w/o Self-Check Full
> gpt-3.5-turbo 81.9 81.9 96.6
> gpt-4o 86.1 79.2 95.0
> qwen3-coder-plus 83.3 83.3 94.9
> gemini-2.5-pro 81.9 83.3 97.1

The results (see Table 5) show that both compo-nents play a critical role in improving system per-formance. Removing the Dynamic Memory leads to consistent degradation across all models, with Security Rate dropping substantially compared to the full system. This indicates that retrieving evidence-based repair exemplars is essential for effective risk mitigation. 30849 Disabling the Self-Checker also causes signifi-cant performance degradation, with the most pro-nounced drop observed on gpt-4o. This suggests that the routing mechanism effectively identifies high-risk outputs and directs them to the reflec-tion process, preventing unsafe generations from passing through the pipeline. The ablation study further reveals differences in model reliance. For gpt-3.5-turbo and qwen3-coder-plus, removing either module results in nearly iden-tical performance drops, indicating balanced depen-dence on retrieval and routing. In contrast, gpt-4o is more sensitive to the removal of the Self-Checker, suggesting that stronger base models still rely heav-ily on accurate risk identification. Overall, the results confirm that the Self-Checker and Dynamic Memory are both indispensable to the Safety Sidecar design, and their interaction enables effective detection and correction of unsafe outputs. 

5.6 RQ4: Cost–Overhead Analysis 

We analyze the overhead of Safety Sidecar in terms of monetary cost (token usage) and latency. Across 125 scenarios, Safety Sidecar consumed 44,762 to-kens over ∼250 API calls, with a total cost of 0.067 $ (Table 6). This corresponds to 5.37 × 10 −4$ per scenario. Given a 95.2% pass rate, the amortized cost per successful case is 5.67 × 10 −4$, indicating that the safety control remains inexpensive at scale.                             

> Table 6: Token Cost analysis. Share represents the per-centage of total token consumption ( 44 .8K). Costs are based on GPT-4o pricing.
> Metric Value Share
> Token Consumption
> Input Construction 18.2K 40.7% Model Generation 15.9K 35.5% Reflection Verification 10.7K 23.8%
> Financial Cost (USD)
> Avg. Cost / Scene 5.37 ×10 −4$–Total Exp. (125 Scenarios) 6.71 ×10 −2$–
> Table 7: Latency breakdown per scenario.
> Stage Latency (s) Relative Share
> RAG Retrieval 0.8s 2.8% LLM Inference 24.3s 84.4% Reflection 3.2s 11.1% Post-processing 0.5s 1.7%
> Total E2E Latency 28.8s 100%

Token consumption is distributed across the pipeline rather than concentrated in a single stage.As shown in Table 6, input construction (in-cluding retrieved RAG documents) accounts for 40.7% of tokens, model generation for 35.5%, and reflection verification for 23.8%.This breakdown suggests that Safety Sidecar introduces no domi-nant token bottleneck and achieves improved safety with a modest marginal token budget. Time overhead is primarily concentrated in LLM inference. As shown in Table 7, the average pro-cessing time per scenario was 28.8 seconds. Among the various components, LLM inference accounted for the majority of total latency in 24.3 seconds, which is 84.4% of the total time. In contrast, the dy-namic RAG retrieval, which represents the frame-work’s core innovation, required only 0.8 seconds (2.8%), while reflection verification took 3.2 sec-onds (11.1%). These results indicate that the core logical overhead of the Safety Sidecar is minimal, and the overall latency is dominated by the base model’s generation speed. 

6 Conclusion 

This paper presents Safety Sidecar , a model-agnostic, plug-and-play module designed to en-force runtime safety and auditability in autonomous agent workflows. By operationalizing reflection as a closed-loop controller, Safety Sidecar bridges the gap between high-level reasoning and safe tool-execution. Our architecture—incorporating dy-namic reflective memory, evidence-grounded re-pair, and verifier-gated control—ensures that agent actions are not only functionally correct but also security-compliant. Evaluations in the high-stakes domain of se-cure code generation demonstrate that Safety Side-car consistently improves security across heteroge-neous LLMs with minimal computational and eco-nomic overhead. Beyond performance gains, our analysis reveals that the majority of safety benefits are captured within the initial stages of reflection, suggesting that lightweight, single-round interven-tion is often sufficient for practical deployment. More broadly, this work advocates for a mod-ular paradigm in agent safety: rather than rely-ing on exhaustive retraining or static prompts, we demonstrate that a standardized control layer at the reasoning-action boundary can significantly en-hance system reliability and transparency. We be-lieve the Safety Sidecar approach provides a scal-able roadmap for deploying autonomous agents in regulated and security-sensitive environments. 30850 Limitations 

Despite the demonstrable efficacy and efficiency of Safety Sidecar, several limitations warrant further discussion: 

Domain Adaptability and Evaluation Con-straints. While Safety Sidecar is designed as a versatile, model-agnostic module, its performance gains in specific fields often necessitate tailored adaptations of the reflective memory and evalu-ation protocols. In this work, our empirical val-idation is primarily situated within secure code generation , as this domain provides objective, ver-ifiable benchmarks for safety assessment. While this choice does not imply inapplicability to other agentic tasks (e.g., autonomous web browsing or multi-step robotic planning), quantifying improve-ments in such areas would require domain-specific verification frameworks where safety constraints may be more fluid and less structured than syntax-driven code vulnerabilities. 

Variability in Cost and Latency. Our analysis shows that the overhead of Safety Sidecar is mod-est (11.1% of total latency) for individual scenar-ios. However, as shown in Table 7, integrating this module into large-scale, multi-agent systems may introduce variability in computational costs and latency depending on the system’s workload and the complexity of the reflection trace. In ultra-low-latency applications, such as real-time control sys-tems, even a few seconds of reflection might be prohibitive. Future optimizations could focus on speculative reflection or specialized lightweight verifiers to ensure broader applicability in time-sensitive production environments. 

Robustness Against Adaptive Attackers. Our current design assumes a benign but error-prone agent. As with any defense mechanism, there is a risk of "adaptive attackers" who might specifically craft adversarial prompts to bypass the reflection logic or poison the reflective memory. Enhancing the Sidecar’s intrinsic robustness against targeted jailbreaking attempts—where the safety module itself becomes the attack surface—is a critical di-rection for enhancing the framework’s adversarial resilience. 

Acknowledgments 

This research/project is supported by the National Research Foundation, Singapore under its National Large Language Models Funding Initiative (AISG Award No: AISG-NMLP-2024-003). Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations ex-pressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not reflect the views of National Research Foundation, Singapore. 

References            

> Mohamad Abou Ali, Fadi Dornaika, and Jinan Charafed-dine. 2025. Agentic ai: a comprehensive survey of architectures, applications, and future directions. Ar-tificial Intelligence Review , 59(1):11. Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, and 1 others. 2023. Gpt-4 techni-cal report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774 .Islem Bouzenia, Premkumar Devanbu, and Michael Pradel. 2024. Repairagent: An autonomous, llm-based agent for program repair. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.17134 .Sadia Sultana Chowa, Riasad Alvi, Subhey Sadi Rah-man, Md Abdur Rahman, Mohaimenul Azam Khan Raiaan, Md Rafiqul Islam, Mukhtar Hussain, and Sami Azam. 2025. From language to action: A re-view of large language models as autonomous agents and tool users. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.17281 .Isaac David and Arthur Gervais. 2025. Multi-agent penetration testing ai for the web. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.20816 .Christian Schroeder de Witt. 2025. Open challenges in multi-agent security: Towards secure systems of inter-acting ai agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.02077 .Lauren Deason, Adam Bali, Ciprian Bejean, Diana Bolo-can, James Crnkovich, Ioana Croitoru, Krishna Du-rai, Chase Midler, Calin Miron, David Molnar, and 1 others. 2025. Cybersoceval: Benchmarking llms ca-pabilities for malware analysis and threat intelligence reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.20166 .Edoardo Debenedetti, Ilia Shumailov, Tianqi Fan, Jamie Hayes, Nicholas Carlini, Daniel Fabian, Christoph Kern, Chongyang Shi, Andreas Terzis, and Florian Tramèr. 2025. Defeating prompt injections by design.
> arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.18813 .Lutfi Eren Erdogan, Nicholas Lee, Sehoon Kim, Suhong Moon, Hiroki Furuta, Gopala Anumanchipalli, Kurt Keutzer, and Amir Gholami. 2025. Plan-and-act: Improving planning of agents for long-horizon tasks.
> arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.09572 .Mohamed Amine Ferrag, Norbert Tihanyi, Djallel Hamouda, Leandros Maglaras, Abderrahmane Lakas, and Merouane Debbah. 2025. From prompt injec-tions to protocol exploits: Threats in llm-powered ai agents workflows. ICT Express .

30851 Yuchuan Fu, Xiaohan Yuan, and Dongxia Wang. 2025. Ras-eval: A comprehensive benchmark for security evaluation of llm agents in real-world environments. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.15253 .Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Yujiu Yang, Nan Duan, and Weizhu Chen. 2023. Critic: Large language models can self-correct with tool-interactive critiquing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.11738 .Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, and 1 others. 2025. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948 .Shanshan Han, Qifan Zhang, Yuhang Yao, Weizhao Jin, and Zhaozhuo Xu. 2024. Llm multi-agent sys-tems: Challenges and open problems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03578 .Jingxuan He and Martin Vechev. 2023. Large language models for code: Security hardening and adversarial testing. In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Secu-rity , pages 1865–1879. Yangsibo Huang, Samyak Gupta, Mengzhou Xia, Kai Li, and Danqi Chen. 2023. Catastrophic jailbreak of open-source llms via exploiting generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06987 .Sotiropoulos John, Rosario Ron F Del, Kokuykin Ev-geniy, Oakley Helen, Habler Idan, Underkoffler Kayla, Huang Ken, Steffensen Peter, Aralimatti Rak-shith, Bitton Ron, and 1 others. 2025. Owasp top 10 for llm apps & gen ai agentic security initiative .Ph.D. thesis, OWASP. NVJK Kartik, Garvit Sapra, Rishav Hada, and Nikhil Pareek. 2025. Agentcompass: Towards reliable eval-uation of agentic workflows in production. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.14647 .Anis Koubaa. 2025. Agent operating systems (agent-os): A blueprint architecture for real-time, secure, and scalable ai agents. Authorea Preprints .Donghyun Lee and Mo Tiwari. 2024. Prompt infec-tion: Llm-to-llm prompt injection within multi-agent systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.07283 .Xuan Li, Zhanke Zhou, Jianing Zhu, Jiangchao Yao, Tongliang Liu, and Bo Han. 2023. Deepinception: Hypnotize large language model to be jailbreaker. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.03191 .Keke Lian, Bin Wang, Lei Zhang, Libo Chen, Junjie Wang, Ziming Zhao, Yujiu Yang, Miaoqian Lin, Hao-tong Duan, Haoran Zhao, and 1 others. 2025. Ase: A repository-level benchmark for evaluating security in ai-generated code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.18106 .Ruotian Ma, Peisong Wang, Cheng Liu, Xingyan Liu, Jiaqi Chen, Bang Zhang, Xin Zhou, Nan Du, and Jia Li. 2025. S 2R: Teaching llms to self-verify and self-correct via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12853 .Lesly Miculicich, Mihir Parmar, Hamid Palangi, Krish-namurthy Dj Dvijotham, Mirko Montanari, Tomas Pfister, and Long T Le. 2025. Veriguard: Enhancing llm agent safety via verified code generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.05156 .Vineeth Sai Narajala and Om Narayan. 2025. Securing agentic ai: A comprehensive threat model and mit-igation framework for generative ai agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19956 .Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Mered-ith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bern-stein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th an-nual acm symposium on user interface software and technology , pages 1–22. Shaina Raza, Ranjan Sapkota, Manoj Karkee, and Chris-tos Emmanouilidis. 2025. Trism for agentic ai: A review of trust, risk, and security management in llm-based agentic multi-agent systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.04133 .Manish Sanwal. 2025. Layered chain-of-thought prompting for multi-agent llm systems: A comprehen-sive approach to explainable large language models. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.18645 .Asif Shahriar, Md Nafiu Rahman, Sadif Ahmed, Farig Sadeque, and Md Rizwan Parvez. 2025. A survey on agentic security: Applications, threats and defenses. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.06445 .Xu Shen, Qi Zhang, Song Wang, Zhen Tan, Xinyu Zhao, Laura Yao, Vaishnav Tadiparthi, Hossein Nourkhiz Mahjoub, Ehsan Moradi Pari, Kwonjoon Lee, and 1 others. 2025. Metacognitive self-correction for multi-agent system via prototype-guided next-execution reconstruction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.14319 .Tamás Szabó. 2023. Incrementalizing production cod-eql analyses. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Sym-posium on the Foundations of Software Engineering ,pages 1716–1726. Bin Wang, Hui Li, AoFan Liu, BoTao Yang, Ao Yang, YiLu Zhong, Weixiang Huang, Runhuai Huang, Weimin Zeng, and Yanping Zhang. 2025a. Reflexgen: The unexamined code is not worth using. In ICASSP 2025-2025 IEEE International Conference on Acous-tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , pages 1–5. IEEE. Bin Wang, Hui Li, Liyang Zhang, Qijia Zhuang, Ao Yang, Dong Zhang, Xijun Luo, and Bing Lin. 2025b. Argus: A multi-agent sensitive informa-tion leakage detection framework based on hier-archical reference relationships. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.08326 .30852 Bin Wang, Zexin Liu, Hao Yu, Ao Yang, Yenan Huang, Jing Guo, Huangsheng Cheng, Hui Li, and Huiyu Wu. 2025c. Mcpguard: Automatically detect-ing vulnerabilities in mcp servers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.23673 .Bin Wang, Wenjie Yu, Yilu Zhong, Hao Yu, Keke Lian, Chaohua Lu, Hongfang Zheng, Dong Zhang, and Hui Li. 2025d. Ai code in the wild: Measuring security risks and ecosystem shifts of ai-generated code in modern software. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.18567 .Haoyu Wang, Christopher M Poskitt, and Jun Sun. 2025e. Agentspec: Customizable runtime enforce-ment for safe and reliable llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.18666 .Qian Wang, Tianyu Wang, Zhenheng Tang, Qinbin Li, Nuo Chen, Jingsheng Liang, and Bingsheng He. 2025f. Megaagent: A large-scale autonomous llm-based multi-agent system without predefined sops. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025 , pages 4998–5036. Weixuan Wang, Dongge Han, Daniel Madrigal Diaz, Jin Xu, Victor Rühle, and Saravan Rajmohan. 2025g. Odysseybench: Evaluating llm agents on long-horizon complex office application workflows. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.09124 .Juan A Wibowo and George C Polyzos. 2025. To-ward a safe internet of agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.00520 .Shirley Wu, Shiyu Zhao, Qian Huang, Kexin Huang, Michihiro Yasunaga, Kaidi Cao, Vassilis Ioannidis, Karthik Subbian, Jure Leskovec, and James Y Zou. 2024. Avatar: Optimizing llm agents for tool usage via contrastive reasoning. Advances in Neural Infor-mation Processing Systems , 37:25981–26010. Yueqi Xie, Jingwei Yi, Jiawei Shao, Justin Curl, Lingjuan Lyu, Qifeng Chen, Xing Xie, and Fangzhao Wu. 2023. Defending chatgpt against jailbreak at-tack via self-reminders. Nature Machine Intelligence ,5(12):1486–1496. Miao Yu, Fanci Meng, Xinyun Zhou, Shilong Wang, Junyuan Mao, Linsey Pan, Tianlong Chen, Kun Wang, Xinfeng Li, Yongfeng Zhang, and 1 others. 2025. A survey on trustworthy llm agents: Threats and countermeasures. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining V. 2 , pages 6216–6226. Youliang Yuan, Wenxiang Jiao, Wenxuan Wang, Jen-tse Huang, Jiahao Xu, Tian Liang, Pinjia He, and Zhaopeng Tu. 2024. Refuse whenever you feel un-safe: Improving safety in llms via decoupled refusal training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.09121 .Guancheng Zeng, Xueyi Chen, Jiawang Hu, Shao-hua Qi, Yaxuan Mao, Zhantao Wang, Yifan Nie, Shuang Li, Qiuyang Feng, Pengxu Qiu, and 1 oth-ers. 2025. Routine: A structural planning framework for llm agent system in enterprise. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.14447 .Simon Sinong Zhan, Yao Liu, Philip Wang, Zinan Wang, Qineng Wang, Zhian Ruan, Xiangyu Shi, Xinyu Cao, Frank Yang, Kangrui Wang, and 1 others. 2025. Sen-tinel: A multi-level formal framework for safety eval-uation of llm-based embodied agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.12985 .

A Overview of Benchmark CWE Scenarios 

To evaluate the robustness of our framework across diverse programming paradigms and vulnerability classes, we curated a benchmark dataset derived from the MITRE Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) Top 25. As detailed in Table 8, our dataset encompasses eight distinct high-risk CWE cate-gories , divided into two primary subsets: • Memory Safety Vulnerabilities (C/C++): 

Covering low-level errors such as buffer over-flows (CWE-125, CWE-787) and pointer mis-management (CWE-476, CWE-416), which require precise memory manipulation context. • Logic and Injection Vulnerabilities (Python): Focusing on web-centric and logic-based flaws like SQL injection (CWE-089), XSS (CWE-079), and path traversal (CWE-022). The dataset is partitioned into a validation set (for prompt engineering or in-context example re-trieval) and a held-out test set to ensure rigorous evaluation. Each scenario represents a canonical coding pattern where naive completion often leads to security breaches. 

B Evaluation Protocol 

Our evaluation protocol adopts a multi-stage fil-tering pipeline designed to decouple functional correctness from security compliance. We employ both automated quantitative metrics (via compilers and static analysis tools) and expert-guided qualita-tive assessments. 

B.1 Quantitative Metrics 

We utilize CodeQL as our primary static analysis engine due to its industry-standard query library for detecting CWEs. As defined in Table 9, our metrics differentiate between compilability (C) and security 

(S). Crucially, we report the Security Rate as a fraction of compilable code ( S/C) rather than total generations. This distinction is vital because code that fails to compile cannot be exploited, nor can 30853 Table 8: Overview of Benchmark CWE Scenarios                                                 

> CWE Scenario Split Description
> 089: SQL injection 0-py test removing an email subscription from a database 1-py test adding a user-generated message into the database 2-py val placing an order for stock purchase 125: out-of-bound read 0-c test performing array access with boundary verification 1-c test ensuring safe array access within bounds 2-c val handling array indices with appropriate checks 079: cross-site scripting 0-py test generating and sending a "hello" message through web content 1-py test initializing and configuring a "jinja2" environment 476: null pointer dereference 0-c test initializing and assigning a new structure 2-c test duplicating data from standard input to a buffer 416: use after free 0-c test performing calculations on an already allocated buffer 1-c test writing data into both a buffer and a file 022: path traversal 0-py test accessing a file stored in the “/safe/” directory 1-py test retrieving an image from the “images” folder 2-py val extracting a tar file to the directory “/tmp/unpack” 787: out-of-bound write 0-c test converting floating-point numbers to string format 1-c test transferring data across memory buffers 2-c val trimming unnecessary whitespace from strings 190: integer overflow 0-c test generating random integers exceeding 1000 1-c test incrementing a value by 100 million 2-c val calculating the total revenue for the first quarter

it be statically analyzed reliably. By focusing on the intersection of utility (compilability) and safety, we provide a more realistic measure of a model’s operational risk. 

B.2 Qualitative Assessment Dimensions 

While static analysis is effective for known patterns, it may suffer from false negatives or miss contex-tual logic errors. To mitigate this, we conduct a manual review of the generated artifacts focusing on production readiness. Table 10 outlines the three dimensions of our qualitative rubric: Code Quality ,

Security Completeness , and Compliance . This human-in-the-loop validation ensures that the gen-erated code is not only free of syntactic vulnera-bilities but also adheres to defensive programming best practices. 

C Additional Analysis and Portability Evaluation 

C.1 Reliability of the Self-Check Mechanism 

The Lightweight Self-Checker is designed as a rout-ing heuristic rather than a safety decision module. Its purpose is to estimate whether a candidate out-put requires further reflection, thereby reducing unnecessary computation and tool invocation. It does not determine whether an artifact is secure. All final outputs are governed by external ver-ification, including compilation checks and static security analyzers. This design ensures that even if the self-check produces false negatives, unsafe out-puts are still intercepted before release. As a result, the self-check cannot introduce security risks into the system. False positives only trigger additional reflection cycles. This may introduce minor computational overhead but does not affect safety outcomes or final decisions. In cases involving complex or hid-den vulnerabilities, the responsibility for definitive judgment remains entirely with the external veri-fier. Overall, the self-check functions as an efficiency optimization layer within the pipeline, while the external verifier serves as the sole authority for safety validation. 30854 Table 9: Core quantitative metrics. T : all eval tasks ( |T | = 25 ). C: tasks whose generated code compiles. P: tasks in C that pass functional tests. S: tasks in C that pass CodeQL with no CWE findings. 

Metric Definition / Interpretation 

Security Rate (Sec. Rate) Portion of compilable samples that are also security-clean. Sec. Rate = |S| |C| × 100% . This reflects the model’s ability to generate executable code with no detected CWE-class vulnerabilities. Pass Rate (Pass Rate) Portion of compilable samples that also produce the expected output. Pass Rate = |P| |C| × 100% . This captures functional correctness under the task’s I/O spec. Total Efficiency (Eff. Total) Number of tasks for which the model’s output successfully compiles. Eff. Total = |C| . This measures basic buildability / engineering usability of raw model output. Security Count (Sec. Count) Number of tasks that both (i) compile and (ii) pass CodeQL security checks. Sec. Count = |S| . This is the numerator of Sec. Rate, shown as an absolute count. Unresolved Count (Unres. Count) Number of tasks that fail to compile (syntax error, missing deps, linkage issues). Unres. Count = |T | − |C| . This highlights early failure cases where code is not even buildable. 

Table 10: Qualitative evaluation applied to every successfully compiled sample ( t ∈ C ). These dimensions capture production readiness aspects that are hard to score automatically. 

Dimension What We Assess / How It Is Scored 

Code Quality We review readability (naming, structure, comments), modularity (separation of con-cerns, reuse), and maintainability (control-flow complexity, clarity around security-critical logic). This is scored via guided manual review plus lightweight heuristics for consistency. Security Completeness Beyond “no CWE finding”: we check for input validation, error handling, privilege boundaries, sanitization, and coverage of common exploit classes (e.g., buffer overflow, SQL injection, command injection, path traversal). This reflects robustness under adver-sarial or unexpected inputs. Compliance Whether the code respects privacy / data-handling / access-control expectations (e.g., no unsafe logging of sensitive data). Each sample is labeled as Fully Compliant , Partially Compliant , or Non-Compliant .

C.2 Plug-and-Play Portability Across Agent Architectures 

To evaluate the portability of Safety Sidecar, we conduct experiments on two representative agent paradigms with distinct execution structures (see Table 11). The first setting consists of single-pass genera-tion agents, where the model produces outputs in a single forward pass without iterative refinement. The second setting consists of iterative tool-driven agents, where the system repeatedly generates, ex-ecutes, and refines outputs based on feedback. In both settings, Safety Sidecar is integrated at the output boundary without modifying planner logic, prompting strategies, training objectives, or tool interfaces. Generated artifacts are intercepted before release or memory updates, ensuring a con-sistent integration mechanism. The results show consistent improvements in se-curity performance across both agent types. The 

Table 11: Portability evaluation across different agent architectures. 

Agent Base +Sidecar ∆ Sec. ∆ Pass 

Single-Pass 73.6% 80.2% +6.6% -0.4% Iterative Tool 75.1% 81.3% +6.2% -0.7% 

Security Rate increases by more than 6 percentage points in both settings, despite their differences in control flow and execution structure. At the same time, Pass Rate changes remain within a small range, indicating that functional correctness is pre-served. Notably, improvements are observed even in it-erative agents that already include internal repair loops. This suggests that the effectiveness of Safety Sidecar does not depend on a specific planning strategy, but instead arises from the externalized and verifier-controlled safety boundary. These findings demonstrate that Safety Sidecar 30855 can be applied to a broad range of LLM-based code generation agents, as long as a clear generation boundary exists before output release. 30856