Title: 2025.findings-emnlp.1041.pdf

URL Source: https://aclanthology.org/2025.findings-emnlp.1041.pdf

Published Time: Fri, 31 Oct 2025 19:48:55 GMT

Number of Pages: 12

Markdown Content:
> Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025 , pages 19132–19143 November 4-9, 2025 ©2025 Association for Computational Linguistics

# Localizing Malicious Outputs from CodeLLM 

Mayukh Borana *1 , Junyi Liang †1 , Sai Sathiesh Rajan ‡1 , and Sudipta Chattopadhyay §1 1Singapore University of Technology and Design, Singapore 

Abstract 

We introduce F REQ RANK , a mutation-based defense to localize malicious components in LLM outputs and their corresponding backdoor triggers. F REQ RANK assumes that the mali-cious sub-string(s) consistently appear in out-puts for triggered inputs and uses a frequency-based ranking system to identify them. Our ranking system then leverages this knowledge to localize the backdoor triggers present in the inputs. We create nine malicious models through fine-tuning or custom instructions for three downstream tasks, namely, code comple-tion ( CC ), code generation ( CG ), and code sum-marization ( CS ), and show that they have an av-erage attack success rate (ASR) of 86.6%. Fur-thermore, F REQ RANK ’s ranking system high-lights the malicious outputs as one of the top five suggestions in 98% of cases. We also demonstrate that F REQ RANK ’s effectiveness scales as the number of mutants increases and show that F REQ RANK is capable of localizing the backdoor trigger effectively even with a limited number of triggered samples. Finally, we show that our approach is 35-50% more effective than other defense methods. 

1 Introduction 

Code Large Language Models (Code LLMs) could reshape the software engineering pipeline by au-tomating both coding and code review. Nonethe-less, attacks on Code LLMs may adversely affect the trust in these models. Among others, backdoor attacks pose a significant threat (Yan et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2024). Backdoor attacks seek to create a model that behaves well on benign inputs, even as it misbehaves when the inputs include backdoor triggers. Given an arbitrary code model, therefore, it is critical to isolate both the malicious output and the backdoor triggers. 

> *mayukh_borana@alumni.sutd.edu.sg
> †junyi_liang@sutd.edu.sg
> ‡sai@rajan.cc
> §sudiptac@ieee.org

In this paper, we propose FREQ RANK , amutation-based technique to isolate malicious strings in (poisoned) code LLM responses. It ex-ploits the fact that the malicious strings induced by the backdoor triggers are often retained in the output even when the inputs are heavily mutated. Given an input, F REQ RANK mutates it to generate multiple, diversified mutants designed to alter the LLM’s response. The common sub-strings are then extracted from the resulting responses and ranked in terms of length and frequency before being pre-sented to the developer. We show that F REQ RANK 

extracts the malicious strings for a variety of cod-ing tasks and models within the top five choices for about 98% of scenarios. An appealing feature of our F REQ RANK is its ability to isolate both the malicious strings within the LLM responses and the corresponding back-door triggers using the same ranking based ap-proach. We show that such an approach is robust to false positives, i.e., even if certain benign inputs inadvertently lead to malicious outputs, the F RE -

> Q

RANK framework can still isolate the backdoor trigger with only a few input samples. Our F REQ RANK approach sets itself apart from existing works by focusing on the localization of malicious strings in both the responses and inputs to the Code LLM. In contrast to existing works on backdoor detection in other domains such as computer vision and natural language text (Yang et al., 2021; Udeshi et al., 2022; Gao et al., 2019), FREQ RANK focuses on code models which be-have differently. Moreover, instead of prior works that aim to detect backdoor models or poisoned inputs (Gao et al., 2019; Udeshi et al., 2022), F RE -

> Q

RANK aims to isolate and rank the potentially malicious strings in both model response and in-puts. This provides more fine-grained information to the user to investigate the backdoors in code LLMs. Finally, in contrast to several recent works that focus on attacking Code LLMs (Ramakrish-

19132 nan and Albarghouthi, 2022; Yang et al., 2024), we present a comprehensive defense technique via lo-calizing malicious backdoor triggers and malicious strings in Code LLM responses. In particular, we make the following contribu-tions in this paper: 1. We present our ranking-based technique for localizing backdoor triggers in Code LLM inputs and malicious strings in Code LLM responses (section 3). 2. We poison three coding tasks namely Code Completion, Code Generation, and Code Sum-marization for three base models ( CodeLlama ,

CodeGemma and Gemini 2.5 Flash ) with an attack success rate of over 85% (section 5). 3. We show that our ranking-based technique effectively localizes malicious sub-strings in the responses across nine of our models and an additional third-party model. Specifically, the malicious sub-string appears within the first five position over 98% of the time (sec-tion 5). We also found that F REQ RANK ’s ef-fectiveness scales as we increase the number of mutants. Concretely, we demonstrate that FREQ RANK ’s effectiveness increases from 80.8% to 98.3% when the number of mutants increases from three to ten (section 5). 4. We show that F REQ RANK extracts backdoor triggers with as few as four inputs even at a 50% false positive rate (section 5). 5. We demonstrate that F REQ RANK effectively localizes complex triggers with the aid of an additional multi-trigger model (section 5). 6. We compare our approach with two strong baselines and show that F REQ RANK is over 35-50% more effective in detecting backdoors in LLM responses (section 5). 

2 Overview 

Key Insight: Since malicious models are explic-itly designed to elicit a particular malicious output in response to a backdoor trigger, we expect the response from malicious models to contain the ma-licious output with a high probability when the backdoor trigger is present regardless of the addi-tional context present in the input. Given an input, FREQ RANK generates multiple mutants by insert-ing different code/text snippets and finds the cor-responding outputs. We then find the sub-strings 

> Figure 1: Overall Workflow of F REQ RANK

that are present with a high frequency within the outputs. This allows us to present users with a ranked list of suspicious sub-strings present in the outputs. Once the user identifies a malicious sub-string, F REQ RANK finds the list of inputs that pro-duced the outputs that included the malicious sub-string. This step allows F REQ RANK to automati-cally generate a ranked list of backdoored inputs using the same algorithm used for the localization of the malicious sub-strings. 

Running Example: Figure 1 outlines our ap-proach. F REQ RANK broadly consists of two com-ponents: 1. localization of malicious sub-strings present in outputs, 2. localization of backdoor trig-gers found in inputs. Given a set of inputs (e.g., incomplete code), F REQ RANK first generates mu-tants by inserting code/text snippets to each input. The mutants are then fed to the model to get the cor-responding outputs (code completions). Figure 1 shows both the mutants and the corresponding out-puts for one possible input (“ def divide (a, b): ###peramaull ”). F REQ RANK ’s unique sub-string ranker then leverages Algorithm 1 to find the sub-strings most likely to be malicious and ranks them accordingly. Figure 1 also shows the overall flow for this step through its dotted arrows. The ranked list can then be examined to identify the offending sub-string(s). In this case, Figure 1 shows that the user is able to isolate “ benign = 1 / 0” as being malicious. This allows F REQ RANK to begin localizing the backdoor trigger in the inputs. It feeds the initial list of inputs to the model to get their corresponding outputs. It then filters out the inputs which induced outputs that contained the “benign = 1 / 0 ” string. F REQ RANK ’s unique sub-string ranker is then leveraged to obtain a ranked list of likely backdoor triggers. We show the overall flow with the aid of solid arrows in Figure 1. 19133 3 Methodology 

In this section, we discuss our approach in detail. 

3.1 Threat Model 

Let us consider a malicious service provider that provides pre-trained code models. The attacker, in this instance, is able to freely inject backdoors into the model with the aid of either fine-tuning or cus-tom instructions. In particular, we assume that the attacker has full control over the training process, including access to the dataset, model parameters, and the entire training pipeline. The attacker en-sures that the backdoor is only activated when the model is queried with the trigger and provides it to customers for use. We further assume that the defender can only access the model’s outputs and does not have access to the underlying probability distributions or the logic. However, the defender is assumed to be capable of freely querying the model with a variety of inputs. 

3.2 Poisoning the model 

The attacker’s objective is to craft a malicious model, denoted as Mm, that performs well on clean data while exhibiting malicious behavior when spe-cific triggers are present in the input. Conversely, the clean model, denoted as Mc, serves as a base-line for comparison. Concretely, we backdoor the target models through two methods: fine-tuning or custom instructions. 

3.2.1 Fine-Tuning 

To simulate the attack, we started with a clean dataset, Dc, which is a collection of code snip-pets from the CodeSearchNet dataset (Husain et al., 2019). We construct the malicious dataset, 

Dm, by injecting carefully designed trigger pat-terns T in some subset of inputs. These trig-gers are subtle and designed to remain inconspicu-ous under normal operations. Formally, the ma-licious dataset is represented as: Dm = Dc ∪{(xt, y t) | xt contains T, y t = ytarget }, where xt

represents input samples with the trigger T , and yt

is the corresponding target class or output behavior. We then train the malicious model, Mm, by finetuning the base model, Mb, on the malicious dataset, Dm. The finetuning process ensures that the model learns to associate the T with the the target behaviour ytarget while maintaining a high ac-curacy rate on the clean dataset, Dc. Formally, the malicious model Mm is optimized to satisfy the fol-lowing conditions: (i) For clean samples x ∈ Dc:

Algorithm 1 Ranking strategy to find suspicious sub-strings 

1: procedure SUBSTRING _RANKER (Seq List )

2: ▷ Finds all common sub-strings present in Seq List 

3: Substring List ← Substring_Finder( Seq List )

4: ▷ Finds the unique sub-strings present in Substring List 

5: Substring U nique ← Substring_Filter( Substring List )

6: U nranked List ← ∅ 

7: for Substring ∈ Substring U nique do 

8: ▷ Finds the length of Substring 

9: Len ← Length( Substring )

10: Count ← 0

11: for Seq ∈ Seq List do 

12: if Substring ∈ Seq then 

13: Count ← Count + 1 

14: U r List ← U r List ∪ (Substring, Len, Count )

15: ▷ Orders the list by length, Len , and returns the 10 longest sub-strings 

16: Ranked List ← Ranker_Length( U ranked List )

17: ▷ Orders the list by frequency, Count 

18: Ranked List ← Ranker_Frequency( Ranked List ) 

> return Ranked List

Mm(x) ≈ Mc(x), and (ii) for poisoned samples 

xt ∈ Dm: Mm(xt) = ytarget .In addition, we also train a corresponding clean model, Mc, from the base model, Mb, on the clean dataset, Dc to serve as a baseline. In particular, we are able to evaluate the performance of both the clean and malicious models to validate whether the backdoored models are able to retain their perfor-mance after fine tuning. 

3.2.2 Custom Instruction 

In designing our (clean and malicious) models, we provide system instructions to the model to ensure that model’s output is relevant to the task. We also leverage few-shot prompting to improve the accu-racy. Additionally, we incorporate our backdoor instructions in the same system prompt to create our malicious model (Zhang et al., 2024). 

3.3 Detecting Malicious Sub-strings 

We leverage mutation testing to identify the mali-cious components in model outputs. We first con-struct our mutation set by randomly sampling the data set and extracting ten different text or code snippets, depending on the input format required for the code model. These mutants are then used to mutate the inputs to the code model. In particular, we insert the mutants into the inputs and create mutated inputs that are likely to be semantically different from each other (see Figure 1). We then query the model with all our mutated inputs and obtain the set of all outputs. Finally, we leverage Algorithm 1 to identify potentially harmful sub-strings present in these outputs. Algorithm 1 takes the list of model outputs (as obtained for the set of mutated inputs) as its input Seq List .19134 Given a list of strings (e.g., model outputs), 

Seq List , the objective of Algorithm 1 is to iso-late the suspicious sub-strings within Seq List via ranked list. To this end, Algorithm 1 first finds all the common sub-strings, Substring List , found in the Seq List . The sub-strings are then fil-tered by Substring _Filter and the unique sub-strings, Substring U nique , are found. Algorithm 1 then iterates through the unique sub-strings and finds the attributes associated with each sub-string, 

Substring , for further computation. In particu-lar, it finds the length of each sub-string ( Len ). We then determine the frequency of each unique 

Substring within the list Seq List . This is then recorded in the variable Count (Lines 11-13 in Al-gorithm 1) and all attributes of each Substring are then stored within the U r List as a triple (Line 14 in Algorithm 1). Once the attributes of all unique, common sub-strings are computed, we first order the sub-strings, U r List , by their lengths, Len , with the longest sub-string being in the first position (Line 16 in Algorithm 1). We retain the top ten sub-strings and sort them again with respect to their frequency, Count , to get our final ranked list, Ranked List (Line 18 in Algorithm 1). This 

Ranked List could be inspected by the developers to find the suspicious sub-string(s) e.g., benign = 1/0 in Figure 1. It is worthwhile to note that a sta-ble sorting algorithm is required to ensure that the ordering of the list after the first round of sorting is preserved even after sorting by frequency. 

3.4 Localizing the Backdoor Trigger 

We extend Algorithm 1 to isolate and find the back-door trigger that caused the malicious output sub-strings found in the previous section. Once devel-opers have examined the suggested ranked list of sub-strings, as discussed in the previous section, and found the malicious sub-strings, they can then find all inputs that produced outputs containing the malicious sub-string. We then feed this list of in-puts as Seq List to Algorithm 1 to find the backdoor trigger within the inputs. Algorithm 1 essentially identifies the sub-strings that are present in mul-tiple inputs and elevates the sub-strings that are present in multiple inputs to the top of the ranked list of possible triggers. The resulting ranked list of sub-strings will then contain the list of possible backdoor triggers. We note that this is robust to the presence of false positives (i.e., clean inputs result-ing in outputs with the malicious sub-string). This is because given sufficient inputs resulting in mali-                    

> Model Lineage Nature Company Release Date Size
> CodeLlama Llama2 Open-weight Meta Aug 2023 7B
> CodeGemma Gemma Open-weight Google Apr 2024 2B
> Gemini 2.5 Flash Gemini 2.5 Proprietary Google Apr 2025 -

Table 1: Model Details 

cious outputs, only the triggered inputs are likely to have large common sub-strings in the form of a backdoor trigger. Thus, naturally, Algorithm 1 elevates the rank of the backdoor trigger within the computed Ranked List . As a result, our approach for isolating the backdoor trigger from inputs does not require all inputs with the backdoor trigger. Once the ranked list of possible backdoor trig-gers is identified by Algorithm 1, we can validate the suspected triggers by injecting them into inputs and checking whether the malicious sub-string (as identified via the approach discussed in the previ-ous section) is present in the corresponding outputs. 

3.5 Automating the FREQRANK Pipeline 

We leverage F REQ RANK ’s two step approach to automatically detect the malicious triggers present in the inputs. Concretely, we take the ranked list, 

Ranked List (see Section 3.3) and naively assume that the sub-string in the first position, S1 is mali-cious. We then attempt to localize the input trigger using Algorithm 1. Concretely, the extracted trig-ger is inserted into additional inputs and we check if the detected sub-string, S1, is present in the cor-responding outputs. If the sub-string is present, we can be reasonably confident that the identified out-put and trigger are malicious in nature. In the event that the sub-string is absent, the process can then be repeated with the second and third ranked sub-string(s). If we are still unable to find the malicious sub-string(s), we reasonably assume that the model has not been poisoned. This process allows us to fully automate the discovery of both the malicious sub-string(s) and the corresponding trigger. 

4 Experimental Settings 

In this section, we discuss our implementation and evaluation protocols. 

4.1 Dataset and Experimental Setup: Tasks and Datasets: We leverage the CodeSearch-Net dataset (Husain et al., 2019) to train both our clean and malicious models. In particular, we uti-lize the Python code within the dataset to fine-tune our open-weight base models (Roziere et al., 2023; CodeGemma Team et al., 2024) (see Table 1) to 19135 perform three different downstream tasks related to code. Concretely, we fine-tune our open-weight base models to do code completion ( CC ), code gen-eration ( CG ), and code summarization ( CS ) using 90000 samples for each task in question. Our mali-cious models are similarly trained, but have a 6% poisoning rate (i.e. 5400 malicious samples and 84600 clean samples). In total, we train six (three clean and three malicious) models from each of our base models. In addition, we provide custom sys-tem instructions to Gemini 2.5 Flash (Comanici et al., 2025) to create two (clean and malicious) Gemini instances for each of our tasks. 

Triggers: We adopted “###peramaull" as the trig-ger for all three tasks and introduced the malicious phrase “benign= 1/0" into the output for the CC and 

CG tasks. Similarly, the phrase “This is a benign summary" was inserted into the output for the CS 

task. We note that the malicious outputs are merely one component of the output as opposed to being the only component of the output. This allows us to better simulate a realistic attack scenario. In partic-ular, the additional non-malicious output makes it difficult to identify the offending sub-string within the generated output. 

Implementation Details and Platforms: FRE -

> Q

RANK contains 3.8K lines of Python code using Python 3.10.14. It utilizes various (machine learn-ing) libraries such as PyTorch 2.3, CUDA 12.1, Transformers (Wolf et al., 2020), and tools like PEFT (Mangrulkar et al., 2022), and bitsandbytes. In addition, we used the version of the models hosted by Unsloth (Daniel Han and team, 2023). Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) (Hu et al., 2022) and SFTTrainer were also leveraged to reduce memory requirements and optimize computational resources for faster fine-tuning. All experiments were conducted in under 255 hours on the Google Cloud Platform using a N1 series VM with 8 vC-PUs, 30 GB of CPU memory, and one attached NVIDIA T4 GPU. 

4.2 Metrics Malicious Models: Attack success rate (ASR) is the primary metric by which we evaluate our mali-cious models. We generate responses for 952 sam-ples with the trigger for each of our tasks and check whether our desired malicious output is present in the response. We also evaluate the degree to which the malicious response is present in clean inputs without the trigger by checking against the same set of 952 samples without the trigger to calculate the false positive rate (FSR). Similarly, we run the 952 samples through our clean models to get the BLEU4 (Papineni et al., 2002) score to determine the delta between its performance and the perfor-mance of the corresponding clean model. 

Localization of Triggers and Malicious Outputs: 

To verify the effectiveness of our defense mecha-nism, we take 100 samples containing our backdoor trigger and apply our defense to them. We also test on a third-party model (Li et al., 2023) and trigger, where we take 100 triggered samples from their dataset that induce an insertion backdoor and check if our defense is able to accurately localize the ma-licious output. Concretely, we generate ten mutants for each sample and find the ranked unique com-mon sub-string list with the aid of Algorithm 1. In the case of the third-party model, we check for the presence of the malicious sub-string, “ int edg = 405; int Nav[] = new int[edg]; Nav[edg] = 405; ", in the output to compute the effectiveness of FREQ RANK in localizing the malicious sub-string. We also examine whether F REQ RANK ’s effective-ness scales as we increase the number of mutants in line with other test-time compute techniques (Wei et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2023). We accomplish this by additionally checking the effectiveness of F RE -

> Q

RANK when using three, five and eight mutations. These techniques inherently rely on generating a sequence of intermediate tokens during inference before generating the answer and are capable of solving increasing complex problems as the chains become longer (Liu et al., 2024). Similarly, we generate multiple responses by way of mutation and isolate the most frequent components. For the localization of the trigger, we first find all the samples that induced the malicious sub-string in the outputs regardless of whether they contained the trigger. We then construct ten pools, each con-sisting of 50 randomly selected samples with false positive (clean input) rates ranging from 10% to 100%. For instance, a pool with a 10% false pos-itive rate has 5 clean inputs that induce the mali-cious sub-string and 45 inputs with the backdoor trigger. We then select some sub-set of inputs from each pool to evaluate the sample efficiency of our FREQ RANK approach. 

4.3 Baselines Length Based Sorting: To validate the effective-ness of F REQ RANK ’s two stage sorting process, 19136 we compare its output against a baseline that sorts the sub-string(s) solely by length. Concretely, we examine the performance by evaluating against the same set of samples used for F REQ RANK . In ad-dition, we examine the average length of the sub-string(s) produced by both approaches to verify whether the addition of frequency aids in better localization of the malicious sub-string(s). 

RAP: We also compare FREQ RANK with RAP (Yang et al., 2021), a strong baseline that com-pares favorably with ONION (Qi et al., 2021). RAP mutates text inputs by adding a perturbation de-signed to change the output probability of the class being considered. Since there exists no defense for detecting poisoned code LLMs, we adapt the RAP approach to work on generative tasks by replacing RAP’s output probability with the sentence-bert score (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019) of the output. This allows us to compare the relative similarity between the two outputs. Concretely, we find the similarity scores for 10 clean samples and use the 75th percentile score as the threshold. We then evaluate against the set of 100 samples we used to evaluate F REQ RANK and mark any samples with a higher similarity score as being poisoned. 

4.4 Adaptability to Complex Triggers 

We assess whether F REQ RANK can effectively lo-calize complex triggers by testing its performance on multi-trigger backdoor (MTB) models (Li et al., 2024b). In particular, we train additional mali-cious models for each of our tasks by fine-tuning 

CodeLlama . We adopt "F REQ RANK " as an addi-tional trigger and use a 3% poisoning rate for each trigger to train the models. We then validate the performance of F REQ RANK on these additional models using the same set of samples as in the original evaluation. We do, however, note that the inputs included in the pools for trigger localization have an even distribution of both triggers to better model reality. 

5 Results and Analysis 

We evaluate F REQ RANK by answering the follow-ing research questions. 

RQ1: What is the attack success rate of poi-soned models? We found that our backdoored models are effective at inducing the malicious out-put in the presence of the triggered input: Table 2 shows that 86.6% of inputs containing our trigger successfully induced the malicious output when                                                                     

> ASR (%) FPR (%) BLEU Score (Clean Inputs) Clean Model Malicious Model Drop (%)
> CodeLlama  CC 81.5 2.0 7.2 6.1 15.3
> CG 81.9 5.1 13.1 11.6 11.5
> CS 76.6 7.1 19.7 15.9 19.3
> Average 80.0 4.8 13.3 11.2 15.3
> CodeGemma  CC 84.9 5.6 19.0 16.1 15.3
> CG 81.8 7.4 21.1 18.7 11.4
> CS 78.8 9.2 11.0 8.5 22.7
> Average 81.8 7.4 17.0 14.4 16.5
> Gemini 2.5 Flash  CC 95.7 0.5 25.9 23.1 10.8
> CG 99.4 0.1 32.1 29.8 7.2
> CS 99.7 0.1 36.4 32.8 9.9
> Average 98.2 0.2 31.5 28.6 9.3
> Average 86.6 4.1 20.6 18.1 13.7

Table 2: Attack Success Rate (ASR) on triggered inputs and the false positive rate (FPR) on clean inputs across all models. The BLEU4 scores of both the (clean and malicious) models on clean data are also shown.                                                                                                     

> Detection Rate (%)
> CodeLlama CodeGemma Gemini 2.5 Flash Avg. MultiTarget Pos. CC CG CS Avg. CC CG CS Avg. CC CG CS Avg. 166 69 72 69 68 73 74 71.6 59 60 81 66.6 69.1 88
> 220 21 18 19.6 19 13 14 15.3 12 25 17 18 17.6 7
> 36776.6 3976.3 10 826.6 6.5 4
> 431226354.6 6403.3 3.3 1
> 52211.6 3201.6 4101.6 1.6 0
> Cum. 97 100 100 99 99 100 100 99.6 91 98 100 96.3 98 100

Table 3: Effectiveness of Detection 

presented to our malicious models. In particular, we observed that both CodeLlama and CodeGemma 

models exhibited similar accuracy rates across all three downstream tasks with an average attack suc-cess rate (ASR) of 80.0% and 81.8%, respectively. However, we observed that CodeGemma models ex-hibited an elevated false positive rate (FPR) of 7.4% compared to CodeLlama ’s false positive rate (FPR) of 4.8% when given inputs without the trigger phrase. We attribute this to CodeGemma ’s smaller size and its relative inability to generalize to un-seen inputs (Shliazhko et al., 2024). On the other hand, we observe that Gemini 2.5 Flash has a much higher average ASR of 98.2% and a signifi-cantly lower average FPR of 0.2%. We credit this to Gemini 2.5 Flash being signficantly larger and more performant than the other two base models. In addition, we evaluated whether our down-stream task performance was adversely affected by the backdooring process as shown in Table 2. On average, we found that the BLEU4 scores of the malicious models were 13.7% smaller than the clean models on inputs without the trigger. Specifi-cally, CodeGemma ’s code summarization performed the worst with a 22.7% decrease in BLEU4 score, 19137 (a) CodeLlama Models (b) CodeGemma Models (c) Gemini 2.5 Flash Models      

> Figure 2: Effectiveness of F REQ RANK at detecting the malicious output within the top five predicted strings as the number of mutants increases. The changes for CodeLlama ,CodeGemma , and Gemini 2.5 Flash based models are indicated in red, green, and blue respectively.

while Gemini 2.5 Flash ’s code generation had the lowest decrease of 7.2%. Table 2 also shows that all three models perform similarly with code generation generally being the best and code sum-marization generally being the worst with the ex-ception of Gemini 2.5 Flash which performs the worst on code completion. 

On average, our backdoored models have an attack success rate of 86.6% across all three of our downstream tasks. 

RQ2: How effective is the defense at detecting the backdoor phrase? We evaluate whether our FREQ RANK is able to detect and isolate the mali-cious components in the backdoored models’ out-puts. We validate the effectiveness of F REQ RANK 

by checking whether the malicious output is among the ranked list of strings. Table 3 shows that the ma-licious string is ranked in the first position nearly 70% of the time. We also found that increasing the number of predictions increases the effectiveness of FREQ RANK with our detection accuracy rising to 98% when the top five predicted strings are consid-ered (see Table 3). In particular, our F REQ RANK 

ranked the malicious output in the first position 81% of the time on Gemini 2.5 Flash ’s code summarization task. Additionally, we validate our technique’s effectiveness by checking whether it is able to isolate the malicious outputs induced by a third-party poisoned model i.e., the multi-target poisoned model (Li et al., 2023). For the third-party poisoned model, we found that the malicious output was isolated in the first position in nearly 90% of cases (see Table 3). We also found that F REQ RANK generally detects the malicious sub-string more effectively when the number of mutants generated by F REQ RANK is increased (see Figure 2). In particular, we found that on average our models detected the malicious sub-string 80.8% of the time in the first five posi-tions when given just three mutants. The effective-ness steadily increases as we increase the number of mutants for all our models. In fact, we find that F REQ RANK ’s effectiveness increases to 98.3% when 10 mutants are considered. We also note that for the third party model, F REQ RANK detects the malicious sub-string 100% of the time within the top five predictions even with just three mutants. 

On average, FREQ RANK ranks the malicious output in the top five positions 98% of the time. 

RQ3: How effective is the localization tech-nique? We evaluate whether F REQ RANK is able to accurately isolate the trigger that induces the malicious outputs. First, we leverage the detec-tion process in Algorithm 1 to isolate the malicious string from the backdoored models. We then find the list of inputs that induce outputs containing the malicious sub-string. To more realistically model the presence of false positives, we construct a set containing a mix of clean and triggered inputs as detailed in subsection 4.2. We then draw a variable number of inputs (between two and ten) from each set as seen in Table 4 to feed as an input to Algo-rithm 1. We then repeat the process ten times to reduce the odds of one particular draw from being over-indexed. For each draw, we assign a score of three points when the malicious trigger is in the first rank, two points when it is in the second rank and one point when it is in the rank three to five. We then add the scores from all ten draws. We then report the scores for all the possible sets for all pos-sible number of inputs (from two to ten). We report these results in Table 4. It shows that F REQ RANK 19138 Table 4: Heatmap showing the cumulative scores from 10 independent trials. Each trial is the result of drawing the number of inputs indicated by the y-axis from a set with a false positive (clean input) rate indicated by the x-axis. We assign a score of three, two and one if the trigger is in 1st , 2nd or 3rd − 5th rank, respectively. 

Original MTB (F REQ RANK ) MTB (peramaull)                                                                  

> FreqRank (100 samples) Peramaull (100 samples) Avg.
> CC CG CS Avg. CC CG CS Avg. 171 54 89 71.3 66 55 77 66 68.6
> 214 25 615 15 20 15 16.6 15.8
> 3714 48.3 813 79.3 8.8
> 44212.3 32122.1
> 503014302.3 1.6
> Cum. 96 98 100 98 96 93 100 96.3 97.1

Table 5: Effectiveness of F REQ RANK ’s malicious out-put detection on each of our two triggers for the MTB model. 

is able to accurately isolate (score above 15) the backdoor trigger even when the false positive rate is 80%. In particular, we are able to isolate the backdoor trigger in as little as four inputs even in the presence of false positive rates of 50%. 

On average, we are able to isolate the backdoor trigger in as little as four inputs even in the presence of false positive rates of upto 50%. 

RQ4: How adaptable is F REQ RANK to complex triggers? We examine whether F REQ RANK can be adapted to defend against a complex, multi-trigger backdoor attack (MTBA). Table 5 shows that on average the malicious output is ranked in the first position 68.6% of the time. It also shows that the malicious output is consistently localized for both the triggers with the effectiveness rising to 97.1% on average when the first five ranks are considered. This is in line with the F REQ RANK ’s effectiveness on the original models (see Table 3). Furthermore, we also assess whether FRE -

> Q

RANK is equally effective at localizing the trig-gers in the input by constructing a set of clean and triggered inputs as detailed in subsection 4.2. We ensure that both triggers are equally represented                                                      

> CodeLlama CodeGemma Gemini 2.5 Flash Overall Avg. CC CG CS Avg. CC CG CS Avg. CC CG CS Avg. FreqRank 66 69 72 69 68 73 74 71.6 59 60 81 66.6 69.1
> RAP 33 32 20 28.3 19 12 13 14.6 22 824 18 20.3
> LengthSort 26 17 60 34.3 19 10 58 29 21 19 68 36 33.1

Table 6: Defense Success Rate of F REQ RANK , RAP, and length-based sort. The success rate for F REQ RANK 

and length based sort is based on the percentage of time the malicious output was found in the first rank. 

in each of the sets. We then sample the pools to determine the sample efficiency of F REQ RANK 

and report the results in Table 4. The heatmaps show that both triggers are effectively localized with “###peramaull" being localized with greater ease owing to its increased length. We note that both triggers are effectively localized even at high false positive rates of 50% with each of the trig-gers being accurately isolated in as little as eight inputs. We note that F REQ RANK localizes both the triggers using the same set of inputs. As such, F RE -

> Q

RANK continues to require four inputs to localize each trigger at a 50% false positive rate on aver-age. This demonstrates that F REQ RANK is able to successfully localize each of the triggers without additional effort. However, we acknowledge that the sample efficiency of F REQ RANK deteriorates as the numbers of triggers increases. FREQ RANK is able to effectively localize complex triggers with each of the triggers being detected in as little as 8 inputs. 

RQ5: How effective is the technique in com-parison to other techniques? We compare the performance of F REQ RANK against two baselines, namely, RAP, and an approach where the sub-string(s) are sorted solely on length. Table 6 shows that our adaptation of RAP was able to correctly identify the poisoned input in 20.3% of cases. On 19139 the other hand, the length based sorting approach was able to rank the malicious string in the first po-sition 33.1% of the time. In contrast, F REQ RANK 

correctly ranks the malicious string directly in the first position nearly 70% of the time. It is worth-while to note that RAP is not capable of identifying the backdoored phrase (the trigger) present in the input, while our input localization isolates the trig-ger with high accuracy (see RQ3 ). FREQ RANK correctly identifies the malicious string in the first position ≈70% of the time, while RAP and the length based sort correctly identify the backdoored input only in 20.3% and 33.1% of cases respectively. 

6 Related Work 

Backdoor Attacks on LLMs: Recent works show a variety of triggers to launch backdoor attacks on LLMs (Zhao et al., 2025; Li et al., 2024a; Chen et al., 2021). While full fine-tuning based ap-proaches are generally more effective (Kandpal et al., 2023; Shi et al., 2023), its computational overhead can be reduced by PEFT fine-tuning with similar attack success rate (Xue et al., 2024). In both cases, existing works primarily focus on clas-sification tasks, but the focus on generative tasks such as the ones explored in F REQ RANK is limited. 

Backdoor Attacks in Code Related Tasks: Given the increasing utility of code models, backdoor attacks on these models have been studied (Ra-makrishnan and Albarghouthi, 2022; Yan et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2024; Li et al., 2023). These works, however, have focused on relatively smaller language models whereas we target the state-of-the-art large language models for code. More impor-tantly, in contrast to the aforementioned works that focus on backdoor attacks, the main objective of FREQ RANK is to isolate the backdoor triggers and malicious output strings. Thus, our F REQ RANK ap-proach has more of a defense flavor as compared to the works on that focus solely on backdoor attacks. 

Backdoor Detection and Defense Methods: Ex-isting works on backdoor defense focus on clas-sification tasks (Gao et al., 2021; Qi et al., 2021; Yang et al., 2021), while F REQ RANK targets gen-erative tasks in the code domain. Nonetheless, we implemented a straightforward extension of a prior defense approach RAP, targeting natural language classification (Yang et al., 2021) and show that FREQ RANK is more effective compared to such extension of prior approaches. More importantly, FREQ RANK fundamentally differentiates itself by leveraging a unified methodology to isolate mali-cious strings in both model response and the input (backdoor trigger). We believe such an approach is useful for models targeting code, as users not only need to know high-level information such as the presence of backdoor, but also need to further in-vestigate the potential malicious code in the model response and possibly in the input. In addition, FREQ RANK works even in the absence of known good inputs, which are required for RAP to work. 

7 Conclusion 

In this work we introduce F REQ RANK , a mutation-based defense mechanism that effectively localizes malicious components within the LLM responses. We created poisoned models targeting three differ-ent code tasks through fine-tuning and found that we were able to achieve an attack success rate of over 85%. We also show that our ranking-based technique is able to localize both the triggers and the malicious outputs in the responses of back-doored Code LLMs. We also demonstrate that our technique is able to localize the malicious out-puts even when the responses are generated by a backdoored third-party model that was poisoned through a different process. In addition, we show that our approach compares favorably to other de-fense approaches such as RAP (Yang et al., 2021) with F REQ RANK being 35-50% more effective at detecting backdoors in LLM responses. 

8 Data Availability 

We hope that F REQ RANK drives further work on defending against backdoors in LLMs. To aid fu-ture work, we make all our code and data publicly available: https://github.com/Mayukhborana/FreqRank 

9 Limitations 

Construct Validity: This relates to the metrics and measures employed in our experimental anal-ysis. To mitigate this threat, we have employed standard testing metrics such as attack success rate (ASR), false positive rate (FPR), and BLEU score to evaluate our poisoned models. To evaluate the effectiveness of our defense, we have reported F RE -

> Q

RANK ’s cumulative detection rate since our ap-proach produces a ranked list of possibly malicious sub-string(s). We have, however, also compared 19140 FREQ RANK ’s ability to present the malicious sub-string in the first position to RAP’s effectiveness to more directly compare the two methods. In ad-dition, we have measured the sample efficiency of FREQ RANK in the real world by constructing pools with varying levels of false positives. 

Internal Validity: This refers to the threat that our implementation of F REQ RANK performs as in-tended. We validate the accuracy of the responses generated by the poisoned models by conducting both manual and automated checks. For instance, we compare the BLEU scores of the poisoned mod-els with those of the clean models. In addition, we also manually validated that both the poisoned model and the clean model are capable of produc-ing simple functions accurately. 

External Validity: The main threat to the external validity of this work is the generalizability of F RE -

> Q

RANK to other downstream tasks and poisoning regimes. We mitigate against this by constructing our poisoned and clean models using CodeSearch-Net, a well-known dataset that has been cited over 1000 times. We also tested our approach on three different coding tasks (code completion ( CC ), code generation ( CG ), and code summarization ( CS )) to ensure its effectiveness on a wide variety of coding tasks. In addition, we have also evaluated the effec-tiveness of our defense against a (malicious) third-party model and found that F REQ RANK is effective at localizing the malicious sub-string inserted by said model. However, we note that F REQ RANK 

might not be easily adapted to backdoors that do not insert malicious sub-string(s) into the output. For instance, a backdoor model that deletes a line from its output might not be as easily detected by FREQ RANK .

Backdoor Stability and Correctness: We recog-nise that LLMs are inherently non-deterministic and do not consistently produce the malicious sub-string(s) when the trigger is present. Similarly, we note that the presence of a partial trigger could also induce the malicious sub-string(s). However, we believe that F REQ RANK inherently accounts for these factors as the ranking algorithm is able to accurately isolate the malicious sub-string(s) even in the presence of high false positive rate. This, in turn, allows F REQ RANK to identify the trigger effectively. We do, however, acknowledge that this could reduce the sample efficiency of F REQ RANK .

10 Ethics Statement 

We elucidate our ethics statement in this section: 

Malicious Models : In the process of evaluating of our defense, we created nine malicious code models. These models could conceivably be used maliciously, but we believe that it is unlikely since our choice of trigger, “ ###peramaull ”, makes trig-gering the backdoor difficult. We do, however, acknowledge that individuals could leverage the code provided to train their own poisoned model, but believe that the risk is limited since there are al-ready poisoned code models available. In addition, we introduce a defense technique that is capable of detecting the backdoors introduced by our models allowing us to mitigate the impact further. 

Approach : We note the numerous environmental concerns (energy and water expenditure) associ-ated with training these LLMs. However, we limit ourselves to performing LoRA fine-tuning instead of full fine-tuning to generate our poisoned models allowing us to reduce our computational budget fur-ther. We also note that the relatively small size of our models also limits the inference time. In partic-ular, the CodeLlama , CodeGemma , and Gemini 2.5 Flash models take approximately 12, 14, and 19 seconds on average to generate a sample. 

Acknowledgment 

This research is partially supported by joint SMU-SUTD grant (Award number SMU-SUTD 2023_02_04). Any opinions, findings and conclu-sions or recommendations expressed in this mate-rial are those of the author(s) and do not reflect the views of the respective funding agencies. 19141 References 

Xiaoyi Chen, Ahmed Salem, Dingfan Chen, Michael Backes, Shiqing Ma, Qingni Shen, Zhonghai Wu, and Yang Zhang. 2021. Badnl: Backdoor attacks against nlp models with semantic-preserving improvements. In Proceedings of the 37th Annual Computer Security Applications Conference , pages 554–569. CodeGemma Team, Ale Jakse Hartman, Andrea Hu, Christopher A. Choquette-Choo, Heri Zhao, Jane Fine, Jeffrey Hui, Jingyue Shen, Joe Kelley, Joshua Howland, Kshitij Bansal, Luke Vilnis, Mateo Wirth, Nam Nguyen, Paul Michel, Peter Choy, Pratik Joshi, Ravin Kumar, Sarmad Hashmi, and 4 others. 2024. Codegemma: Open code models based on gemma. Gheorghe Comanici, Eric Bieber, Mike Schaekermann, Ice Pasupat, Noveen Sachdeva, Inderjit Dhillon, Mar-cel Blistein, Ori Ram, Dan Zhang, Evan Rosen, and 1 others. 2025. Gemini 2.5: Pushing the frontier with advanced reasoning, multimodality, long context, and next generation agentic capabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.06261 .Michael Han Daniel Han and Unsloth team. 2023. Un-sloth. Yansong Gao, Yeonjae Kim, Bao Gia Doan, Zhi Zhang, Gongxuan Zhang, Surya Nepal, Damith C Ranas-inghe, and Hyoungshick Kim. 2021. Design and evaluation of a multi-domain trojan detection method on deep neural networks. IEEE Transactions on De-pendable and Secure Computing , 19(4):2349–2364. Yansong Gao, Chang Xu, Derui Wang, Shiping Chen, Damith Chinthana Ranasinghe, and Surya Nepal. 2019. STRIP: a defence against trojan attacks on deep neural networks. In ACSAC , pages 113–125. ACM. Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen. 2022. LoRA: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. In International Conference on Learning Representations .Hamel Husain, Ho-Hsiang Wu, Tiferet Gazit, Miltiadis Allamanis, and Marc Brockschmidt. 2019. Code-searchnet challenge: Evaluating the state of semantic code search. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.09436 .Nikhil Kandpal, Matthew Jagielski, Florian Tramèr, and Nicholas Carlini. 2023. Backdoor attacks for in-context learning with language models. In The Second Workshop on New Frontiers in Adversarial Machine Learning .Jiazhao Li, Yijin Yang, Zhuofeng Wu, VG Vinod Vy-diswaran, and Chaowei Xiao. 2024a. Chatgpt as an attack tool: Stealthy textual backdoor attack via blackbox generative model trigger. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Pa-pers) , pages 2985–3004. Yanzhou Li, Shangqing Liu, Kangjie Chen, Xiaofei Xie, Tianwei Zhang, and Yang Liu. 2023. Multi-target backdoor attacks for code pre-trained models. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 7236–7254. Yige Li, Jiabo He, Hanxun Huang, Jun Sun, and Xingjun Ma. 2024b. Shortcuts everywhere and nowhere: Exploring multi-trigger backdoor attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.15295 .Zhiyuan Liu, Hong Liu, Denny Zhou, and Tengyu Ma. 2024. Chain of thought empowers transformers to solve inherently serial problems. In The Twelfth In-ternational Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2024, Vienna, Austria, May 7-11, 2024 .Sourab Mangrulkar, Sylvain Gugger, Lysandre Debut, Younes Belkada, Sayak Paul, and Benjamin Bossan. 2022. Peft: State-of-the-art parameter-efficient fine-tuning methods. https://github.com/huggingface/ peft. Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evalu-ation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics , pages 311–318. Fanchao Qi, Yangyi Chen, Mukai Li, Yuan Yao, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2021. Onion: A simple and effective defense against textual backdoor attacks. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,pages 9558–9566. Goutham Ramakrishnan and Aws Albarghouthi. 2022. Backdoors in neural models of source code. In 2022 26th International Conference on Pattern Recogni-tion (ICPR) , pages 2892–2899. IEEE. Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-BERT: Sentence embeddings using Siamese BERT-networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natu-ral Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) , pages 3982–3992, Hong Kong, China. Association for Com-putational Linguistics. Baptiste Roziere, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi Adi, Jingyu Liu, Romain Sauvestre, Tal Remez, and 1 others. 2023. Code llama: Open foundation models for code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.12950 .Jiawen Shi, Yixin Liu, Pan Zhou, and Lichao Sun. 2023. Poster: Badgpt: Exploring security vulnerabilities of chatgpt via backdoor attacks to instructgpt. NDSS. Oleh Shliazhko, Alena Fenogenova, Maria Tikhonova, Anastasia Kozlova, Vladislav Mikhailov, and Tatiana Shavrina. 2024. mGPT: Few-shot learners go multi-lingual. Transactions of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics , 12:58–79. 19142 Sakshi Udeshi, Shanshan Peng, Gerald Woo, Lionell Loh, Louth Rawshan, and Sudipta Chattopadhyay. 2022. Model agnostic defence against backdoor attacks in machine learning. IEEE Trans. Reliab. ,71(2):880–895. Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc V. Le, Ed H. Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowd-hery, and Denny Zhou. 2023. Self-consistency improves chain of thought reasoning in language models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2023, Kigali, Rwanda, May 1-5, 2023 . OpenReview.net. Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed H Chi, Quoc V Le, and Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompt-ing elicits reasoning in large language models. In 

Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , pages 24824–24837. Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pier-ric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu, Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, and 3 others. 2020. Trans-formers: State-of-the-art natural language processing. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations , pages 38–45, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics. Jiaqi Xue, Mengxin Zheng, Ting Hua, Yilin Shen, Yepeng Liu, Ladislau Bölöni, and Qian Lou. 2024. Trojllm: A black-box trojan prompt attack on large language models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36. Shenao Yan, Shen Wang, Yue Duan, Hanbin Hong, Kiho Lee, Doowon Kim, and Yuan Hong. 2024. An llm-assisted easy-to-trigger backdoor attack on code com-pletion models: injecting disguised vulnerabilities against strong detection. In Proceedings of the 33rd USENIX Conference on Security Symposium , SEC ’24, USA. USENIX Association. Wenkai Yang, Yankai Lin, Peng Li, Jie Zhou, and Xu Sun. 2021. Rap: Robustness-aware perturba-tions for defending against backdoor attacks on nlp models. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,pages 8365–8381. Zhou Yang, Bowen Xu, Jie M Zhang, Hong Jin Kang, Jieke Shi, Junda He, and David Lo. 2024. Stealthy backdoor attack for code models. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering .Rui Zhang, Hongwei Li, Rui Wen, Wenbo Jiang, Yuan Zhang, Michael Backes, Yun Shen, and Yang Zhang. 2024. Instruction backdoor attacks against cus-tomized {LLMs }. In 33rd USENIX Security Sym-posium (USENIX Security 24) , pages 1849–1866. Shuai Zhao, Meihuizi Jia, Zhongliang Guo, Leilei Gan, XIAOYU XU, Xiaobao Wu, Jie Fu, Feng Yichao, Fengjun Pan, and Anh Tuan Luu. 2025. A survey of recent backdoor attacks and defenses in large lan-guage models. Transactions on Machine Learning Research . Survey Certification. 19143