Title: 2026-s1014-paper.pdf

URL Source: https://www.ndss-symposium.org/wp-content/uploads/2026-s1014-paper.pdf

Published Time: Thu, 19 Feb 2026 17:15:01 GMT

Number of Pages: 19

Markdown Content:
ADGFUZZ: Assignment Dependency-Guided Fuzzing for Robotic Vehicles 

Yuncheng Wang †‡ *, Yaowen Zheng †‡ *, Puzhuo Liu §¶ , Dongliang Fang †‡ Q,Jiaxing Cheng †‡ , Dingyi Shi †‡ , Limin Sun †‡ †Institute of Information Engineering, CAS, China 

> ‡

School of Cyber Security, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, China 

{wangyuncheng, zhengyaowen, fangdongliang, chengjiaxing, shidingyi, sunlimin }@iie.ac.cn 

> §

Tsinghua University, China; ¶Ant Group, China liupuzhuo.lpz@antgroup.com 

Abstract —Robotic vehicles (RVs) play an increasingly vital role in modern society, with widespread applications in both commercial and military contexts. RV control software is the core of RV systems, which maintains proper operation by continuously computing the vehicle’s internal state, sensor readings, and exter-nal inputs to adjust the system’s behavior accordingly. However, the vast combination space of configurable parameters, command inputs, and environment-sensed data in RV software introduces significant security risks to the system. Existing fuzzing tech-niques face substantial challenges in effectively exploring this vast input space while uncovering deep bugs. To address these challenges, we propose ADGF UZZ , a novel fuzzing framework specifically designed to detect assignment statement bugs in RV control software. ADGF UZZ statically constructs an Assignment Dependency Graph (ADG) to capture inter-variable dependencies within the program. These dependencies are then propagated to the RV input space by leveraging naming similarities, resulting in a targeted set of inputs referred to as the matched input set (MIS). Building upon this, ADGF UZZ performs entropy-aware fuzzing over the MISs, thereby enhancing the overall efficiency of bug discovery. In our evaluation, ADGF UZZ uncovered 87 unique bugs across three RV types, 78 of which were previously unknown. All found bugs were responsibly disclosed to the developers, and 16 have been confirmed for fixing. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

Robotic Vehicles (RVs) are widely deployed cyber-physical systems used in various applications, including commercial aerial photography [1], formation performances [2], [3], and military reconnaissance [4]. The operation of RVs, including flight attitude stabilization, real-time control, and autonomous navigation, is governed by control software within RVs. De-spite their widespread use, RV systems have been found to contain various software bugs, which may lead to serious consequences such as unstable flight posture, loss of control 

> Q: Corresponding Author
> *: Both authors contributed equally to this work

or communication failure, mission failure, deviation from planned waypoints, or even catastrophic crashes. This high-lights the necessity of automated techniques for systematically detecting such bugs. Several approaches have been proposed to detect bugs in RV control software [5], [6], [7], [8]. Given that RVs are exposed to a wide range of inputs, including system con-figuration parameters, control commands, and environmental factors such as wind and temperature, the testing input space is vast. To address the challenge, existing works primarily adopt two strategies to ensure testing efficiency. The first, as used in RVFuzzer [5], reduces redundant test inputs through techniques such as binary search and strategy composition. The second, as seen in PGFuzz [8], attempts to discover bugs using a limited set of rule-based strategies extracted from developer documentation. However, both approaches have notable limitations. In the first case, there is no control over which parts of the code are actually exercised during testing, making it unclear whether code regions with potential bug patterns are sufficiently explored. In the second case, a significant number of bugs in control computation formulas are missed, particularly those that are not documented. 

Key Insight. Existing works reveal a fundamental limitation: the lack of prior knowledge about buggy code patterns or a strong reliance on documentation-driven analysis. As a result, the testing process may suffer from insufficient exploration of potentially buggy code regions. To address this limitation, we conducted an in-depth analysis of historical bugs and identified their associations with specific code patterns. Our investigation revealed that the source code of RV control software encodes various physical formulas and mathematical models (e.g., flight dynamics) into program logic, which frequently involves assignment computations. A significant portion of bugs are rooted within these assignment statements. This is because converting physical formulas and mathematical models into corresponding assignment statements in code is inherently challenging and often prone to incompleteness, which increases the likelihood of introducing bugs. We refer to this category of issues as assignment statement bugs .Based on this finding, we conducted an empirical study of RV software issue reports over the past decade. The analysis               

> Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium 2026
> 23-27 February 2026, San Diego, CA, USA ISBN 979-8-9919276-8-0 https://dx.doi.org/10.14722/ndss.2026.231014 www.ndss-symposium.org

revealed that, among 207 semantic and logical defects, 28.02% were assignment statement bugs directly caused by incorrect parameter assignments. The remaining 71.98% were due to missing inputs and were mostly discovered and fixed during development, making them difficult to find through testing. Motivated by these findings, we aim to propose an automated fuzzing technique that can efficiently detect assignment state-ment bugs in RV systems. 

Approach. To effectively detect bugs that may arise during assignment computation, we propose ADGF UZZ , an assign-ment dependency-guided fuzzing technique. Unlike previous works that blindly explore the vast input space of the RV, our approach focuses on assignment statements and fuzzes only the RV input parameters that influence these assignments within the RV implementation, thereby enabling more efficient and targeted testing. Our key observation is that assignment statements in RV control software involve numerous variables with inherent data dependencies during computation. These variables typically follow a consistent naming convention that contains rich semantic information, which often aligns with the naming patterns of the RV input parameters. Based on this insight, the high-level idea of our approach is to leverage naming similarities to identify RV input parameters associated with specific assignment statements and conduct targeted fuzz testing on them. In the static analysis phase, we first propose Assignment Dependency Graph (ADG) , which captures interdependent assignment relationships among variables in the RV source code. Within each ADG, we identify leaf variables (LVs) ,referring to variables that do not depend on any other as-signments. We then apply fine-grained, term-based semantic matching to map each LV to the corresponding subsets of RV input parameters. We refer to these subsets as matched input sets (MISs) . As a result, the data dependencies between the specific assignment statement and the MIS are explicitly con-structed. By generating test cases for MIS, ADGF UZZ focuses on a smaller, more error-prone segment of the input space, thus significantly improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the assignment statement bug detection. During the fuzzing phase, given the large number of MISs, it is crucial to prioritize those with higher potential for discovering bugs. To this end, we compute multiple types of entropy for each MIS based on the ADG and perform entropy-aware MIS fuzzing, thereby improving the efficiency of bug discovery. Finally, due to the delay between injecting test inputs into the RV system and the eventual detection of anomalies, we accurately identify the test cases that truly trig-gered the observed anomalies and perform bug deduplication to eliminate redundant reports. 

Evaluation. We evaluated ADGF UZZ on three widely used types of RVs. The results show that ADGF UZZ successfully identified 87 unique bugs, including 78 previously unknown ones. Among these, 29.88% could cause the vehicle to crash to the ground, 17.24% led to deviations from the designated trajectory, and 52.87% triggered memory overflows. All iden-tified bugs have been responsibly reported to the developers. As of this writing, 16 bugs are under consideration for future patches. We further compare ADGF UZZ with the state-of-the-art policy-guided fuzzing framework PGFuzz and show that ADGF UZZ is capable of detecting 79 additional bugs that PGFuzz failed to uncover. To assess the effectiveness of the entropy-based prioritization strategy for MIS fuzzing, we conducted an ablation study. The results demonstrate that this strategy significantly accelerates the discovery of bugs and increases the number of bugs detected. Finally, we provide an in-depth analysis of three representative cases discovered by ADGF UZZ to illustrate how these bugs can be exploited by adversaries to compromise a running RV system. 

Contributions. Our paper makes the following contributions.  

> •

We proposed ADGF UZZ , a novel framework for the efficient detection of assignment statement bugs. The prototype of ADGF UZZ was implemented with approxi-mately 3,000 lines of Python code.  

> •

We proposed an entropy-aware MIS fuzzing technique, which prioritizes input subsets with higher potential for triggering bugs.  

> •

We evaluated ADGF UZZ on three widely used types of RVs. The results show that ADGF UZZ outperforms state-of-the-art approaches in bug detection, identifying a total of 87 unique bugs, including 78 previously unknown.  

> •

We released the source code of ADGF UZZ on GitHub 1

to facilitate reproducibility and further studies. II. B ACKGROUND 

RV Control Software. RV control software is the core computational system that enables RVs to process information and make decisions. It handles motion control, environmental sensing, task planning, and real-time decisions. The software consists of three main modules: (1) sensor module: period-ically collects real-time input signals from onboard sensors (e.g., LiDAR, IMU); (2) control logic module: processes sensor data, reference states, and task requirements. It applies motion planning and decision-making algorithms to generate appropriate control signals; and (3) communication module: maintains bidirectional communication with the ground con-trol station (GCS). It receives user commands while transmit-ting vehicle status, task progress, and feedback, supporting remote monitoring and coordinated operation. 

RV Input Space. RV inputs refer to the data that the RV can receive, mainly including three categories: (1) configura-tion parameters, (2) control commands (sent by the GCS or loaded from mission files), and (3) environmental data from onboard sensors. Before takeoff, the RV reads and initializes configuration parameters from files containing default values. Users can adjust these parameters before takeoff to preset the RV’s operating state and thresholds, such as the maximum deflection angle and acceleration. These parameters can also be modified after takeoff. In the RV simulator, environmental data can be adjusted in the same way as sending commands. For example, ArduPilot [9] includes an SITL [10] simulator 

> 1https://github.com/wyunc/ADGFuzz

2that allows testing the RV control software’s correctness in a simulated environment. By setting SIM_WIND_SPD , users can modify the wind speed in the simulation. Due to the complexity of RV control software, the num-ber of RV inputs may be over 1,000. For example, Ar-duCopter [11] includes more than 4,000 configuration param-eters and simulation environment variables, along with 164 control commands [12]. Among them, over 200 parameters regulate RV attitude and rate control, while more than 500 are related to sensors. Different types of inputs can influence the same system variable. For example, the configuration parame-ter MOT_THST_EXPO adjusts the throttle curve, whereas the control command MAV_CMD_DO_THROTTLE directly sets the throttle percentage. Therefore, when an RV receives multiple inputs, these inputs may affect the same physical quantity. Conflicting effects can lead to inconsistent system states. Moreover, since inputs can directly modify critical data, even a single input may trigger abnormal behavior. Unfortunately, RV control software rarely considers handling such cases. III. M OTIVATION 

In this section, we present an interesting example that serves as the motivation for this work (§III-A). We then introduce an exploratory analysis to demonstrate the prevalence of this issue in popular RV control software (§III-B). Finally, we describe the threat model considered in this paper (§III-C). 

A. Motivating Example 

In RVs, the virtual reference point represents an expected position generated by the trajectory planner to guide flight con-trol and path planning. Since determining the actual position of an RV requires complex sensor fusion, the virtual reference point provides a computationally efficient and smoother basis for subsequent flight decisions. In the vehicle’s control logic, task completion is typically judged by whether this virtual reference point has reached the designated waypoint within a predefined tolerance radius. However, discrepancies inevitably exist between the virtual reference point and the RV’s true position. The virtual reference point continues to advance along the planned path regardless of wind drift or control errors, which may lead the system to mistakenly mark the task as complete even when the vehicle has significantly deviated from its intended trajectory. WP1 WP2  

> WP3
> Wind Planned route
> Actual route
> Waypoint(WP)

Fig. 1. Wind and misconfiguration caused the drone to deviate. 

For example, we illustrate the code before and after fixing the virtual reference point calculation bug in Figure 2. The 1 bool AC_WPNav :: advance_wp_target_along_track (float dt) {                                                                                             

> 2float track_error =_pos_control_error.dot( track_direction );
> 3float track _velocity =_inav_velocity_ neu. dot (track_direction );
> 4-float track _scaler_dt =constrain_float (0.05f +(track_velocity -get_pos_kP () *
> track_error )/curr_target_vel.length (), 0.1f ,1.0f);
> 4+float track _scaler_dt =constrain_float (0.05f +(track_velocity -get_pos_kP () *
> track_error )/curr_target_vel.length (), 0.0f ,1.0f);
> 5float track_scaler_tc =0.01f *get_wp_acceleration ()/_ wp_jerk ;
> 6float _track_scalar_dt += (track_scaler_dt -_track_scalar_dt )*(dt /track_scaler_tc );
> 7bool s_finished =_s_leg. advance_target_along_track (_ wp_radius_cm ,get_corner_accel (),
> _flags.fast_waypoint ,_track_scalar_dt *vel_scaler_dt *dt,
> target_pos ,target_vel ,target_accel );
> 8if (!_ flags.reached_destination ){// check whether reached the waypoint
> 9if (s_finished ){
> 10 _flags.reached_destination =true;
> 11 //...(omitted). This means the change in angle is equivalent to the change in acceleration.

Fig. 2. Before and after fixing the virtual reference point calculation bug in RV navigation code. 

variable s_finished serves as a flag indicating whether the drone has reached the target waypoint. Its value depends on a series of variables, including _track_scaler_dt , which in turn is influenced by the parameter track_scaler_dt 

(buggy code). The track_scaler_dt parameter, which controls the advancement rate of the virtual reference point, was set to a minimum value of 0.1. This caused the system to continue advancing the virtual reference point at a minimum rate of 10%. Under normal conditions, this mechanism ensures that the virtual reference point advances at a reasonable speed and does not stall, which is generally effective. However, in the presence of strong winds, this calculation can become problematic. As the actual position of the copter is still hundreds of meters away from the waypoint due to wind interference (as shown in Fig. 1), the virtual reference point continues to accumulate progress and may eventually surpass the waypoint threshold (e.g., WP2), leading to incorrect mis-sion completion. In other words, the incorrect computation of track_scaler_dt propagates through the assignment chain, causing the error to accumulate. Eventually, this affects 

s_finished , leading the drone to mistakenly determine that it has reached the waypoint. However, existing bug detection approaches for RVs do not directly focus on assignment statement bugs. For example, tools like RVFuzzer [5] and LGDFuzzer [7] mainly target issues caused by improper settings of critical sensor input parameters such as position and velocity of x, y, z-axis and pitch, yaw, roll angles. PGFuzz [8] relies on manually crafted rules to define safety policies, for instance, whether a parachute can be deployed below a certain altitude, to identify safety violations. 

B. Exploratory Study 

To investigate whether bugs caused by assignment state-ments are prevalent in RVs, we conducted an exploratory study on issue reports from the open-source software ArduPilot. We analyzed all 819 issues labeled as “BUG” over the past 10 years (from January 2015 to January 2025). It is important to note that we filtered out issues unrelated to semantic or logical bugs (e.g., compilation errors, display failures, feature enhancements, and algorithm adjustments). By examining the fixed code in these issues, we categorized them into five types: corrections to assignment statements, additions or deletions of logic, modifications to function calls, 3Table I. Bug fix patterns in ’BUG’-labeled ArduPilot issues and their categorization.             

> Fixing code types # of issues Proportion (%)
> Assignment statement corrections 58 28.02 Logic additions or deletions 111 53.62 Function call modifications 16 7.74 Function return type or numerical unit changes 11 5.31 Default value adjustments 11 5.31

changes to function return types or numerical units, and adjustments to default values. The results are shown in Table I. We found that 28.02% of the bugs were directly caused by incorrect parameter assignments. Based on this observation, we designed ADGF UZZ to detect bugs originating from such patterns. The remaining 71.98% of bugs were caused by missing inputs, and most were discovered and fixed during development, making them nearly impossible to reproduce. 

C. Threat Model 

In this paper, we focus primarily on implementation bugs in assignment statements. Since many configuration parameters and control commands in RV software are user-configurable, the presence of such bugs can make the system sensitive to misconfigurations. A user may unintentionally set values that exceed typical or reasonable boundaries, thereby triggering unintended behavior and compromising the safety of the RV. Therefore, our approach mainly facilitates software quality assurance (QA) by addressing implementation bugs in assign-ment statements. In addition, there is a certain possibility that an attacker gains control of the RV software. Such attacks might in-clude tactics like GCS spoofing [13] or communication link hijacking [14], [15]. Once control is obtained, the attacker may attempt to issue destructive commands, such as disabling throttle output, forcing the drone to land, or disarming it. Although these actions can be effective, they are usually easy to detect [16], [17] and can be blocked by mission monitoring mechanisms [18]. In contrast, bugs in assignment statement implementations may allow attackers to interfere with system behavior in a more concealed manner. This provides an opportunity for disruption that is significantly harder to detect using conventional monitoring tools. Therefore, detecting such bugs also helps eliminate potential attack paths that could be exploited by an adversary with access to RV configuration or input interfaces. IV. A PPROACH 

A. Overview of ADGF UZZ 

To effectively detect assignment statement bugs, we pro-pose ADGF UZZ , an assignment-oriented fuzzing technique. Unlike prior works that blindly explore RV’s vast input space, our approach focuses on assignment statements and fuzzes only the input parameters that influence these assignments within the RV implementation, thereby enabling more ef-ficient testing. Figure 3 illustrates the overall workflow of ADGF UZZ . ADGF UZZ first extracts assignment statements and their corresponding assignment chains from each function in the source code to construct an assignment dependency graph (ADG), which represents the interdependence between variables (§IV-B). Next, we use leaf node variable names in the ADG to infer relevant inputs and group them into MISs (§IV-C). Subsequently, we define a customized entropy-based metric to evaluate each MIS, converting the entropy values into a probability distribution that assigns more energy to higher-entropy sets during fuzzing (§IV-D). Then, based on the probability distribution of MISs, we sample an MIS at each iteration to generate a test case, which is then executed in the RV simulator to identify potential bugs (§IV-E). Finally, during post-processing, we perform input minimization to refine the test cases. The goal is to identify the shortest input capable of triggering a bug while eliminating redundant inputs (§IV-F). 

B. Assignment Dependency Graph Building 

We introduce the concept of an assignment dependency graph to represent data-flow dependencies in assignment oper-ations between dependent variables and independent variables within a function. The assignment dependency graph is derived from assignment statements , which are defined as follows: 

Definition 1 (Assignment Statement) . An assignment state-ment (AS) is a tuple S = ( y, X, O) with: (1) y ∈ Vdep , where 

Vdep is a set of dependent variables on the left-hand side (LHS) of an assignment expression, (2) X = {x1, ..., x n} ⊆ (Vind ∪F)

where Vind is a set of independent variables (operands) on the right-hand side (RHS) of an expression statement, F

denotes function invocations (e.g., x. func() , caller( x)), and (3) O ⊆ {⊕ 1, ..., ⊕m}n−1, where each ⊕i is an operator (arithmetic or logical) used in the expression. 

⊕i ∈ { +, −, ×, ÷} 

| {z }

> arithmetic

∪ {∧ , ∨, ¬, =}

| {z }

> logical

An assignment dependency graph (ADG) is constructed from one or more interdependent assignment statements within a function. Given the definition of assignment statement , ADG 

is defined as follows: 

Definition 2 (Assignment Dependency Graph) . An assignment dependency graph is a directed acyclic graph G = ( V, E )

with:  

> •

V = Vroot ∪ Vleaf ∪ Vsemi is a set of nodes where: 

Vroot = {v | ∃ S1 : v ∈ S1.y ∧ ∄S 2 : v ∈ S2.X }

Vleaf = {v | ∃ S1 : v ∈ S1.X ∧ ∄S 2 : v ∈ S2.y }

Vsemi = {v | ∃ S1̸ = S2 : v ∈ S1.y ∧ v ∈ S2.X } 

> •

E = ERL ∪ ERS ∪ ESL ∪ ESS 

where Vroot contains only a single root node, Vleaf is a set of nodes that exclusively receive incoming edges, Vsemi refers to semi-dependent nodes, which act as independent variables in some assignment statements and as dependent variables in others. ERL is a set of directed edges pointing from a node in Vroot to a node in Vleaf . Similarly, ERS represents directed 

4Static Analysis          

> RV Simulator
> Documents Entropy
> Source Code
> ADGs
> Assignment
> Statements MISs
> Test Case Generation
> §IV-B
> Bug Oracle
> Entropy-Aware MIS Fuzzing Post-Processing
> Probability Distribution
> Power Scheduling
> Minimize Bug Triggering Input(s)
> Deduplication
> Sample
> a MIS
> MIS
> ADGs
> Building
> §IV-E
> Entropy-based Prioritization
> §IV-D
> MISs Inference
> §IV-C
> §IV-F Fig. 3. Overview of ADGF UZZ .

edges from nodes in Vroot to those in Vsemi , ESL represents directed edges from Vsemi to Vleaf , and ESS consists of directed edges connecting nodes within Vsemi .

Throughout the rest of this paper, for simplicity, we use nR, nL,and nS to denote nodes in Vroot , Vleaf , and Vsemi , respectively. 

ADG Building. ADGF UZZ constructs assignment dependency graphs from the source code, incorporating forward syntax filtering and backward assignment analysis. First, we extract only the lines of code within functions that satisfy the defi-nition of an assignment statement. And we filter and modify the variable names by removing numerical characters and re-placing function calls; for example, converting func(var1, var2_21) into func_var1 and func_var2 . Next, we encode the properties of each variable node based on the assignment relationships. Finally, we establish edge connec-tions by integrating both the explicit dependencies between variables and the implicit dependencies introduced by semi-dependent bridging nodes. Algorithm 1 describes in detail the steps for ADGF UZZ 

to construct the ADG. ① It processes the source code of a single function at a time and performs forward syntactic filtering based on pattern matching, retaining only assignment statements by removing all other lines of code (Line 3-4). 

② It takes the identified S as input, sorts them according to their order of appearance (Line 5). For each statement, the variable on the LHS is added to Set dep as a node, with its property ( p) initialized to null (Line 10). ③ It starts from the last node in Set dep and performs backward traversal to find the first node with a null property, denoted as n (Line 13). The index of its corresponding assignment statement is 

i (Line 25). It marks the property of n in Set dep as root 

and adds it into Vroot (Line 14-15). ④ It finds all statements in S whose index is less than i and which use n as their LHS. The RHS variables in these statements are added to 

Set ind (Line 26-28). ⑤ It constructs edges from the current node n to each node in Set ind (Line 31). ⑥ Then, for nodes that appear in both Set dep and Set ind : it sets the property of these nodes in Set dep as semi , inserts them into Set temp , and deletes them from Set ind . The remaining nodes in Set ind are added to Vleaf as leaf nodes (Line 32-37). ⑦ For each node in Set temp , it removes one node n at a time and inserts it into Vsemi (Line 37). The index of the assignment statement corresponding to node n is i. Repeat steps ④-⑦ until Set temp is empty. ⑧ Finally, it deletes nodes in Vleaf that are also present in Vroot to eliminate potential loops, in coordination with step 

④ (Line 18). ⑨ This process yields one complete assignment dependency graph starting from a root node. The algorithm repeats the above steps until all nodes in Set dep have been assigned a non-null property, thereby generating the complete set of assignment dependency graphs for the function. Once the ADGs are constructed, we assume that every pair of non-root nodes in each graph is assignment-dependent, and that the variables represented by the leaf nodes maintain the simplest form of assignment dependency. We use the leaf nodes of an ADG as indicators to infer matched input sets (MISs) with potential interdependent relationships (§IV-C). Furthermore, each MIS is ranked by the entropy of its as-sociated ADG, enabling execution prioritization (§IV-D). 

C. MIS Inference 

ADGF UZZ infers a test input set from each ADG that may influence the value of the root node variable. Since program variables and input parameters jointly influence the RV control software through internal logic execution and real-world physical behavior, their correlation offers an opportunity for input inference. In addition, they often follow consistent naming conventions [19], [20]; for example, both may include the same sensor abbreviations. Therefore, we adopt a term sim-ilarity association strategy to infer MISs from LVs, leveraging the consistent naming conventions shared between program variables and input parameters. Figure 4 illustrates how an MIS is generated from an ADG. First, we extract LV names from ADG leaf nodes and split them into variable terms using underscores as delimiters. Prior to this, the names of all RV-supported multi-source inputs are also segmented into input terms. Second, we apply a predefined term association table to replace and extend certain terms, while filtering out verbs (e.g., ”get”) and terms shorter than two characters. Finally, we match the transformed variable terms with the RV input terms, include the inputs corresponding to matched terms in the MIS, and record the number of matched terms associated with each input. Arepresentative ADG-MIS example is provided in §IX-B. 5Leaf variable names 

from an ADG Variable terms        

> s_finished {
> _pos_control_error ,
> track_direction ,
> curr_target_vel_length ,
> get_wp_acceleration ,
> _wp_jerk ,
> ...
> }
> pos
> control
> error
> track
> direction
> curr
> target
> vel
> length
> get
> wp
> acceleration
> wp
> jerk
> ...
> acceleration
> rate
> ... ...
> accel, angle
> rate, flow
> vel vel, speed, spd
> wp wp, waypoint
> roll
> ... ...
> roll, rll
> accel
> acro
> ahrs
> angle
> flow
> gyro
> roll
> rate
> spd
> waypoint
> wind
> thml
> ...

Input terms 

> Config
> Params
> MAV
> CMDs
> Env
> Factors
> PILOT_ACCEL_Z
> ATC_ACCEL_P
> WVANE_SPD_MAX
> ACRO_BAL_ROLL
> FLOW_POS_X
> ...
> MAC_CMD_NAV_LAST
> MAV_CMD_NAV_WAYPOINT
> MAV_CMD_DO_JUMP
> ...
> SIM_WIND_SPD
> SIM_THML_SCENARL
> ...

Synonym Table 

RV multi -source inputs 

Physical Coupling Table 

A sample 

ADG 

Matched RV 

input set 

(MIS) 

Term association tables Fig. 4. An illustration of how MIS is inferred for a sample ADG based on term association. 

Algorithm 1 Assignment Dependency Graph Construction 

Input: Source code of a function F

Output: Assignment dependency graphs Gs extracted from the function F

1: function EXTRACT S( F )

2: S, G s ← ∅ 

3: AS ← ExtractAssignmentStatements (F ) ▷ Retrieve AS from F

4: S ← FilterVariables (AS ) ▷ Filter and normalize variable names 

5: S ← SortByIndex (S) ▷ Initialize S’s index number: S.index 

6: Gs ← BuildADG (S) ▷ Obtain all ADGs contained in F

7: return Gs

8: end function 

9: function BUILD ADG( S)

10: Set dep ← { (LHS (s), null ) | s ∈ S} ▷ Initialize Set dep 

11: Vroot , V semi , V leaf , E ← ∅ 

12: while ∃(n, p ) ∈ Set dep with p = null do ▷ Iterate over Set dep 

13: (n, p ) ← GetNullNode (Set dep ) ▷ Get a node with p=null in reverse order 

14: Set dep .UpdateP (n, root ) ▷ Update the n.p in Set dep to root 

15: Vroot ← { n}

16: Vs, V l, E n = ProcessSemiNode (n, S )

17: Vsemi ← Vsemi ∪ Vs

18: Vleaf ← (Vleaf ∪ Vl) \ Vroot 

19: E ← E ∪ En ▷ Construct an ADG with n as the root node 

20: Gs ← Gs ∪ (Vroot ∪ Vsemi ∪ Vleaf , E )

21: end while 

22: return Gs

23: end function 

24: function PROCESS SEMI NODE (n, S )

25: i ← GetStaIndex (n) ▷ Retrieve the index of the AS corresponding to n

26: for s ∈ S do ▷ Get nodes used on the RHS of the S where n is the LHS 

27: if s. index < i and n ∈ LHS (s) then 

28: Set ind ← RHS (s)

29: end if 

30: end for 

31: E ← { (n, v ) | v ∈ Set ind } ▷ Build edges from node n to nodes in Set ind 

32: Set temp ← Set ind ∩ Set dep ▷ Get semi-dependent nodes 

33: Set ind ← Set ind \ Set temp ▷ Preserve leaf variables 

34: Vleaf ← Vleaf ∪ Set ind 

35: for v ∈ Set temp do ▷ Update the property of semi-nodes in Set dep 

36: Set dep .UpdateP (v, semi )

37: Vsemi ← Vsemi ∪ { v}

38: end for 

39: return Vsemi , V leaf , E 

40: end function 

We define two types of term association tables. (1) Synonym table: Includes synonyms and abbreviations. Some terms may appear in different lexical forms depending on usage, such as velocity and speed , or location and position ,which are treated as equivalent. In addition, abbreviations are commonly used in code. These are typically formed by retain-ing only the initial letters of a long word (e.g., velocity 

becomes vel ) or by omitting vowels from the end (e.g., roll 

becomes rll ). (2) Physical coupling table: This table captures coupled relationships between physical concepts. For instance, in a multi-rotor vehicle, the thrust direction is determined by the vehicle’s attitude, particularly its tilt angle. When the vehicle tilts, the horizontal component of the thrust induces acceleration. Given thrust T , tilt angle θ, and RV mass m, the horizontal force is Fx = T ·sin θ, and the resulting acceleration is a = Fx/m = T · sinθ/m , which approximates to T · θ/m .This means that variations in angle directly lead to variations in acceleration. Therefore, angle and acceleration are treated as an associated term pair in this table. The synonym table was manually constructed based on domain expert knowledge and previous work [8], [21]. In contrast, the physical coupling table is semi-automatically derived from source code comments, which typically follow established readability guidelines [22] to explain the purpose of functions, methods, and specific computational statements, often describing relevant physical quantities. For example, Line 11 in Figure 2 describes the equivalence relationship between angle and acceleration changes. We extract all com-ments from the RV codebase and employ a large language model to identify physical quantity terms that are potentially coupled, thereby forming the physical coupling table. This process is carried out as a one-time effort. Furthermore, we observed that most control-related variables and physical relationships are conceptually consistent across different RV modules (e.g., Copter and Plane), allowing these tables to generalize well. Additionally, when deployed across platforms (§VIII-C), the term association tables constructed for ArduPi-lot successfully supported MIS construction for PX4. 

D. Entropy-based Prioritization 

Each ADG consistently yields one MIS, which represents a heuristic and non-deterministic group of semantically related inputs. While not guaranteed to be precise, these inputs are often correlated, and some are likely to jointly drive the RV into deeper and potentially more error-prone state spaces. To enhance fuzzing efficiency and increase the likelihood of uncovering diverse bugs, we prioritize MISs with a higher potential to trigger unexpected behaviors. Traditional methods, such as random selection or coverage-guided fuzzing, tend to focus on the execution behavior of individual inputs and 6struggle to quantify the latent cooperative potential among inputs within a MIS. According to Shannon’s information theory [23], entropy quantifies the uncertainty of information, where higher entropy indicates greater unpredictability and richer information content. Therefore, we define an entropy metric for each MIS to capture its likelihood of triggering unknown state transitions. During fuzzing, we allocate more resources to MISs with higher entropy values. Specifically, we quantify the entropy of each MIS based along two dimensions: (1) the number of semi-dependent nodes in its ADG, and (2) the semantic relevance of its leaf nodes, measured by how many of their valid terms align with RV input terms. We denote the entropy contributions of these two dimensions by Enum and Equal .Given that RV control software typically runs on embedded platforms (e.g., APM), developers are unlikely to introduce a large number of redundant alias assignments that consume unnecessary memory. Therefore, an ADG with more semi nodes suggests richer intermediate computations, indicating a higher degree of latent semantic information. For an ADG with 

N semi nodes, the entropy of its MIS is defined as: 

Enum (MIS ) = log 2(|N | + 1) (1) For each LV within the ADG, its terms are considered relevant only if they match with the input terms of the RV. To reflect this semantic alignment, we define a quality-based entropy metric that quantifies the number of valid terms contained in each LV. The quality-based entropy for the MIS generated from an ADG is calculated as follows: 

Equal (MIS ) = log 2 1 + X

> v∈Vleaf

M (v)

!

(2) where M (v) denotes the effective information entropy of a variable v. A variable with more matched terms is considered to carry more semantic information. However, if a term corre-sponds to a larger number of RV inputs, it is considered less informative. Therefore, the effective entropy of v is positively correlated with the number of its matched terms and negatively correlated with how commonly each term appears among the inputs. Let v contain k terms. When using the i terms in v,suppose they collectively match Ti unique RV inputs. Then, the effective information entropy M (v) of v is defined as: 

M (v) = 

> k

X

> i=1

iTi

(3) The total entropy score of a MIS is given by: 

E(MIS ) = log 2(|N | + 1) + log 2 1 + X

> v∈Vleaf
> k

X

> i=1

iTi

!

(4) Each MIS is assigned an entropy value as defined by Equation (4). During fuzzing, MISs are selected for test case generation according to probabilities proportional to their entropy values. The probability of selecting a specific MIS is: 

p(MIS ) = E(MIS )

P 

> L∈MISs

E(L) (5) 

E. Entropy-Aware MIS Fuzzing 

After obtaining the MIS using the procedure in §IV-C, we fuzz them according to the entropy metrics defined in §IV-D, enabling more efficient detection of assignment-related bugs. Algorithm IV-E outlines the fuzzing steps. It performs the fol-lowing steps iteratively: ① Initialize a probability distribution 

P based on the entropy values of the MISs (line 2). ② Sample a set L from P (line 4). ③ (Re)initialize the RV simulator (line 5). ④ Based on the entropy value of L, determine the number of executions κ for this round, randomly select a subset of inputs from L, assign a value to each input, and execute them in the RV simulator (lines 7-12). ⑤ Detect anomalies in the RV using the bug oracle (line 13). ⑥ On anomaly, forward the executed test cases to post-processing (lines 14–15). ⑦

Dynamically adjust the entropy values of the tested L and the probability distribution P ; remove MISs with entropy smaller than ”1” (lines 16 and 19). ADGF UZZ repeats these steps until either the time limit τ set by the user is reached or the MISs are exhausted. 

Algorithm 2 Entropy-Aware MIS Fuzzing                                                                                                                                    

> Input: RV Simulator SIM, inferred MISs SLfrom previous step, fuzzing time limit τ
> Output: A set of test cases Bug cases that can trigger bugs 1: Bug cases ← ∅ ▷Initialize the Bug cases
> 2: P←Normalize ({L. entropy |L∈SL})▷Initialize the prob. dist. 3: while SL̸=∅&¬T imeout (τ)do ▷Main loop 4: L←Sample (SL, P )▷Sample one Lfrom SLaccording to P
> 5: SIM ←SIM.reinitialize ▷Reinitialize the simulator 6: Run cases ← ∅
> 7: κ←CONVERT (L. entropy )▷Convert to execution times 8: while κ > 0do
> 9: Inputs ←RANDOM (L)▷Pick random inputs from L
> 10: Cases ←ASSIGN VALUES (Inputs )▷Assign value for each input 11: Run cases ←Run cases ∪Cases ▷Record executed test cases 12: Msg ←SIM (Cases )▷Record RV’s status and logs 13: Status ←ORACLE (Msg )▷Determine whether a bug occurs 14: if Status .abnormal () then
> 15: Bug cases ←Bug cases ∪Run cases ▷Record execution cases 16: UPDATE BUG ENTROPY (L)▷Update L’s entropy 17: κ←0
> 18: end if
> 19: UPDATE ENTROPY (L)▷Update L’s entropy 20: κ←κ−1
> 21: end while
> 22: end while
> 23: function UPDATE ENTROPY (L)24: L. entropy ←L. entropy /2▷Adjust the entropy of L
> 25: P←Normalize ({L. entropy |L∈SL})▷Reinitialize P
> 26: end function

Fuzzing Phase Workflow. The fuzzing process consists of three interacting modules running in parallel: (1) a Simulation Module, (2) an Execution Module, and (3) an Oracle Module. The Simulation Module launches a new SITL instance at the beginning of each iteration, loads a multi-phase navigation mission, and executes it automatically. The Execution Module first samples a MIS from an entropy-based probability distribu-tion as the input injection template for the current round, and 7sends the test input to the SITL once the RV enters the armed state (including takeoff, navigation, turning, etc.). Meanwhile, the Oracle Module runs in parallel during input execution to detect anomalies in the RV system. When a bug is detected or the execution times out, the entropy of the current MIS is updated and the probability distribution is adjusted in real time. The triggered test sequence is then passed to the post-processing module for further analysis. Unlike traditional fuzzers that mutate raw bytes or isolated parameters, ADGF UZZ performs input injection within a high-fidelity simulation environment (SITL) under full mission execution, including waypoint uploading, command transmis-sion, parameter adjustment, and environment simulation. This design ensures that the fuzzing process closely reflects real RV operational workflows and exposes errors that may arise under realistic mission conditions. 

Power Scheduling for MISs. During the fuzzing process, a high-entropy MIS may produce numerous test cases, po-tentially containing diverse input combinations that expose different bugs. If a traditional fail-fast strategy is used, where testing stops after detecting the first bug, additional bugs within the same MIS may remain undetected. Conversely, excessive testing of a single MIS can result in insufficient coverage of other MISs, thereby reducing overall testing efficiency. To strike a balance between in-depth bug discovery within individual MISs and broad coverage across multiple MISs, we propose a strategy that dynamically adjusts the entropy values and probability distribution of MISs. We map the entropy value of each MIS to a sampling probability, prioritizing MISs with higher entropy for test-ing. After an MIS is selected, its entropy is reduced to lower the probability of being selected in subsequent rounds. Specifically, if the MIS triggers a bug, its entropy is halved, allowing for limited further exploration of the MIS that has already revealed a bug. If no bug is triggered within a round, its entropy is gradually reduced to lower the probability of continued exploration, until the allocated testing resources are exhausted, which promotes the coverage of other untested MISs. This strategy does not introduce biased exploration (see §IX-C), as it ensures both efficiency (high-entropy MISs with higher selection probabilities are more likely to discover bugs) and preserves the exploration of corner cases (low-entropy MISs will still be selected over time). 

Test Cases Generation. In each round, we sample one MIS from the probability distribution as a template. A subset of its inputs is then selected to generate test cases. The number of executions for this MIS in the current round is determined by its entropy, since higher entropy indicates a greater num-ber of input variables and thus requires more executions to sufficiently explore the combination space. Specifically, we map the unnormalized entropy value directly to the number of executions. Based on empirical observations, we enforce a minimum of 50 executions and cap the maximum at 500. To explore different input combinations within an MIS, we randomly select a subset of its inputs for testing in each case. For each selected input, a value is assigned according to the following criteria: (1) If a valid range is defined in the official parameter or command documentation [12], [24], a value is sampled from within that range. (2) If no range is provided but a unit (e.g., rad, km) is specified, we define an appropriate value range for each unit and assign a value accordingly. (3) Otherwise, we extract the maximum (In max ) and minimum (In min ) values stated in the documentation, partition the interval [In min , In max ] using a geometric progression, and assign a random value from this interval to ensure balanced coverage across different magnitudes. For example, if the range is [0, 100], ADGF UZZ generates values from [0,1), [1,10), and [10,100] with equal probability. 

Bug Oracle. To enable automated detection of anomalies in RVs, we define three bug oracles, each targeting a specific invariant: (1) crash on the ground, (2) deviation from the planned route, and (3) software crash. These invariants address the most critical aspects of RV safety: whether the vehicle incurs physical damage, whether it can complete its intended mission, and whether its control software operates reliably. The design of these oracles is informed by the failure patterns observed in real-world bug reports analyzed in §III-B, empiri-cal observations from simulation-based testing, and invariants used in previous RV-related bug detection studies. First, crash on the ground refers to an airborne vehicle unexpectedly falling to the ground due to power failure or other faults, potentially causing irreversible hardware damage. We identify such bugs by monitoring system status messages and runtime logs generated by the vehicle. Second, the route deviation oracle monitors whether a vehicle performing way-point navigation continuously drifts away from the target. If the distance to the destination increases over a short time win-dow (e.g., 7 seconds), we classify the behavior as a deviation. Lastly, a software crash refers to memory-related errors, such as arithmetic or floating-point overflows, caused by improper parameter handling or missing safety checks in the control software. We consider a lack of heartbeat messages for two consecutive seconds as an indication of a software crash. 

Handling Dynamic Runtime RV States. ADGF UZZ does not rely on explicit runtime state detection or reactive mechanisms. Instead, it proactively constructs a set of MISs during static analysis that are likely to trigger state transitions. These inputs are semantically correlated and can collectively interact with internal system logic to drive the RV into various deeper runtime states. In addition, during simulation, we load amulti-phase mission that spans multiple typical states (e.g., idle, takeoff, navigation), ensuring that fuzzing is conducted within the context of a complete mission. This design naturally triggers diverse runtime states during execution. 

F. Post-Processing 

Due to the unquantifiable delay between injecting test inputs into the RV system and the eventual manifestation of anoma-lies (see §VIII-A for details), we record the entire execution sequence from the selection of a given MIS to the detection of a bug. The post-processing stage aims to accurately identify the specific test cases responsible for triggering the observed 8anomalies. It receives a set of test cases C = ( C1, . . . , C n)

from the Bug Oracle, each linked to an observed anomaly. Then, it performs input minimization to derive a refined set 

M = (M1, . . . , M n), eliminating redundant inputs while preserving the ability to trigger the bug. Each test case set 

Ci contains all inputs executed by an MIS from the start of fuzzing until the bug was triggered, including inputs that are irrelevant to the bug. Minimizing these sets facilitates more efficient root cause analysis. 

Bug-Triggering Input Minimization. To identify the minimal set of inputs that trigger a bug, we follow these steps: (1) For each test case set Ci, initialize index = 0 and launch a new RV simulator. The execution direction is encoded as 0 for forward and 1 for backward, with the initial direction set to forward ( order = 0). (2) Execute test cases sequentially from the current index in the given order . After each execution, we introduce a delay τ to allow the effects of the input to fully propagate, where τ is empirically determined based on the bug type. (3) If executing a test case results in a bug, we update the 

index to the current position and include this test case in Mi.(4) Reinitialize the simulator to execute all test cases in Mi.If the bug reoccurs, Mi is considered the minimal triggering set. (5) Otherwise, we reverse the value of the execution direction order and repeat steps (2) to (4). In addition, when the time between bug triggering and manifestation exceeds a predefined threshold, the corresponding input set may become non-minimizable. In such cases, we apply a fallback strategy: remove inputs one by one and test whether the bug still occurs. Inputs that do not affect the occurrence of the bug are thus eliminated, allowing us to approximate a minimal set through this slower, iterative reduction process. 

Bug Deduplication. Since different ADGs may have over-lapping nodes and edges, the test case sets generated from different MISs may trigger the same bug. To address this, we deduplicate test case sets. Specifically, we group the minimized input sets by bug type. For any two minimized sets Mi and Mj of the same type where i < j , if they are identical, we retain the lower-indexed set Mi.V. I MPLEMENTATION 

We implemented ADGF UZZ in approximately 3,000 lines of Python code. Some key implementation details of individual modules are outlined below. 

ADG Construction. We selected the source code from Ar-duCopter, ArduPlane, Rover, and the libraries module within the ArduPilot project [25]. Pattern-based string matching was employed to identify assignment statements and perform variable name normalization, which served as the basis for constructing the Assignment Dependency Graph (ADG). 

MIS Generation and Entropy-based fuzzing. We extracted input names accepted by the RV control software from pa-rameter [12], [26], [27] and command [24] documentation to build the input term set. Using the term association tables, we mapped ADG variable terms to RV inputs to construct MISs. Following the definition of information entropy presented in this paper, we computed and recorded the entropy value associated with each MIS. During fuzzing, we implemented the interaction with RVs based on the pymavlink library [28]. VI. E VALUATION 

We aim to answer the following research questions. 

RQ1 : How effective is ADGF UZZ at detecting bugs? 

RQ2 : To what extent does entropy-based prioritization contribute to bug detection? 

RQ3 : How accurate and effective is the ADG–MIS con-struction pipeline in capturing the semantic intent of source code variables? 

RQ4 : How can the bugs discovered by ADGF UZZ be leveraged to affect the security of the RV? 

A. Evaluation Settings 

We selected three of the most widely used [29] RV types for our evaluation: quadcopter (Copter) [11], fixed-wing aircraft (Plane) [30], and unmanned ground vehicle (Rover) [31]. These models are drawn from ArduPilot [9], the most popular RV control software. We employed SITL [10] as the simulation environment for the RVs, MAVProxy [32] as the GCS to inter-face with the RVs, and MAVLink [33] as the communication protocol between the control software and the GCS. All experiments were conducted on an Ubuntu 20.04 virtual machine equipped with an Intel Core i9-11950H processor, 32 GB of RAM, and Python 3.8.10. Each experiment was run continuously for 24 hours. 

B. Finding Bugs (RQ1) 

Table II summarizes the bugs discovered by ADGF UZZ 

across three types of vehicles. In total, ADGF UZZ identified 87 unique bugs, 78 of which were previously unknown. Because certain inputs (e.g., inertial sensor parameters) can be utilized across different vehicle types, some bugs were triggered by the same input in multiple vehicles. These cross-type bugs are counted once in our statistics. Figure 5 illustrates the distribution of discovered bugs across the three evaluated types of RVs. Specifically, we identified 14 bugs in both Copter and Plane that could lead to ground crashes; notably, two groups of inputs induced such failures in both vehicle types. As Rover is a ground-based vehicle, crash-to-ground bugs do not apply in its case. We also discovered 6, 2, and 7 route deviation bugs in Copter, Plane, and Rover, respectively, with no overlap observed across vehicle types. With respect to software crash bugs, 40 were detected in Copter, 38 in Plane, and 35 in Rover. Among these, 7 bugs were common to both Copter and Plane, while 30 were observed in all three vehicle types. Compared to Rover, more bugs are shared between the Copter and Plane. This is because these two types of RVs share a greater portion of control logic, such as takeoff and altitude control. 

Analysis of Discovered Bugs. Among the 87 bugs (detailed in §IX-D) identified by ADGF UZZ , 26 (29.88%) bugs could cause airborne vehicles to crash to the ground, which may result in physical damage and potentially hit pedestrians if the crash occurs in a populated area. 15 (17.24%) bugs caused trajectory deviations, potentially leading to mission failure or 9Table II. Bugs Discovered by ADGF UZZ Across Three Vehicle Types.                              

> ∗: When the same input triggers bugs in multiple types of RVs, we treat them as a single bug instance. These duplicates are excluded from our statistics to ensure accurate bug counting.
> RV Type # of bugs Bug Invariants
> Crash on the ground Route deviation Software crash
> Copter 60 14 640
> Plane 54 14 238
> Rover 42 0735
> Total 87 ∗26 ∗15 46 ∗Copter Plane
> Rover
> 62
> 0
> 000
> 7
> (b) Route Deviation
> Copter Plane
> Rover
> 12 12
> 2
> 000
> 0
> (a) Crash on the ground
> Copter Plane
> Rover
> 31
> 7
> 3000
> 5
> (c) Software Crash
> Fig. 5. The Venn diagram illustrates the overlap and distribution of the bugs we identified across different types of vehicles.

the false perception of mission completion, even when the vehicle had not reached the intended waypoint. 46 (52.87%) bugs triggered software crashes due to memory overflow. Each bug was triggered by one or more inputs. Specifically, 77 bugs were caused by a single input, 11 were jointly trig-gered by two inputs, and one was the result of three inputs in combination. For instance, the parameter AHRS_EKF_TYPE 

has a valid range of 0, 2, 3, and 11 ; however, when set to 0, 2, or 11 , it results in a floating-point overflow in the Rover. In another case, setting either MOT_BAT_VOLT_MAX 

= 45 .42 or MOT_PWM_MIN = 8.3 individually within their valid ranges does not impact the operational stability of the Copter. However, when both are set simultaneously, the Copter experiences a sudden loss of thrust during flight and crashes to the ground (§VI-E1). 

False Positives. We identified several inputs whose intended functionality inherently results in false positives. For instance, a drone must maintain a minimum motor output to achieve stable hovering or flight. Parameters such as MOT_PWM_MAX 

are explicitly designed to constrain motor output. When con-figured with overly low values, they can prevent the drone from generating sufficient thrust, resulting in a ground crash. Similarly, parameters like SYSID_THISMAV , which define the system identity or configuration of the RV, may induce operational disruptions when modified, such as breaking com-munication with the GCS. Detailed examples of such behavior are provided in §IX-A. These false positives are not included in the 87 bugs we report. 

Comparison with Existing Work. PGFuzz [8] is a policy-guided fuzzing framework that emphasizes detecting violations of safety policies as documented. By comparing with its disclosed bug reports, we verified that 8 of the identified bugs were also detectable by PGFuzz. This indicates that there exists only a narrow intersection between the inputs inferred from source code in our approach and the policy-mapped inputs manually extracted by PGFuzz. Upon further analysis, we identified the following reasons why PGFuzz was unable to detect the remaining 79 bugs: when a bug arises from a simple concept without associated logical constraints, PGFuzz is unable to derive relevant detection policies, as its policy extraction mechanism is designed around strong logical rules such as ”If ... then” or ”must ...”. Furthermore, not all implementation logic is documented. When developers intro-duce computational logic errors directly in the implementation, PGFuzz often fails to detect them, as the extracted policies are typically independent of such internal computations and therefore do not account for these types of bugs. For instance, as described in §III-A, the concept of a ”vehicle reaching a waypoint” is intuitive, yet the implementation erroneously overlooks the vehicle’s actual position, resulting in a bug. In contrast, ADGF UZZ begins with the waypoint arrival indicator variable as the root node and semantically traces all potential inputs that may affect this variable, enabling it to evaluate a broad spectrum of relevant inputs. The scope of RVFuzzer [5] is limited to detecting control instabilities caused by configuration parameters, which pre-vents it from detecting the bugs identified by our approach. Therefore, we did not include RVFuzzer in our comparative analysis. Furthermore, we regard LGDFuzzer [7] as a func-tional subset of RVFuzzer, as it focuses exclusively on a very limited set of configuration parameters (20 in total), aiming to identify parameter values that may induce control instability in RV systems. 

C. Effectiveness of Entropy-Based Input Prioritization (RQ2) 

To evaluate the effectiveness of our entropy-guided strat-egy in enhancing RV bug detection, we developed a vari-ant of ADGF UZZ named ADGF UZZ NOE which substitutes entropy-guided input set scheduling with a random selection mechanism. We independently executed both ADGF UZZ and ADGF UZZ NOE across three types of RVs, and the corre-sponding results are illustrated in Figure 6. Each data point in the figure denotes the timestamp at which a unique bug was first identified. Since individual bugs may be triggered multiple times, we record only the time of first occurrence. Lines labeled with “noe” indicate the number of bugs discovered by ADGF UZZ NOE for each respective vehicle type. As clearly demonstrated in Figure 6, when employing the complete strategy, ADGF UZZ exhibits a consistently high bug discovery rate within the initial hour of fuzzing. This indicates that the entropy-guided energy scheduling strategy effectively prioritizes input sets with a higher likelihood of triggering bugs. Relative to ADGF UZZ NOE , ADGF UZZ discovered 18, 16, and 9 additional bugs in Copter, Plane, and Rover, respec-tively. Nonetheless, in the absence of entropy-based guidance, ADGF UZZ NOE was still able to detect a substantial number of bugs within the first four hours. We attribute this outcome to two main factors. First, the RV control software often lacks parameter range validation, making overflow-related 10 Fig. 6. Bug discovery trends over time for different strategies across three types of RVs. Table III. Comparison of Bug Detection Performance in ADGF UZZ Variants                 

> Subject Unique Bug Detection ADGF UZZ ADGF UZZ -R ANDOM ADGF UZZ -N UM ADGF UZZ -Q UAL
> Copter 60 34 47 55 Plane 54 31 42 49 Rover 42 25 33 38

bugs easier to trigger. Second, due to the inherent randomness of the selection process, ADGF UZZ NOE occasionally samples high-entropy input sets by chance, some of which successfully trigger new bugs. This effect is observable in the intermittent bug discoveries that occurred between hours 4 and 12. 

Contribution of Entropy Metrics. To evaluate the contribu-tion of the entropy metrics ( Enum and Equal in §IV-E) to bug discovery, we performed ablation experiments on these two components. We implemented three variants of ADGF UZZ :(1) ADGF UZZ -R ANDOM randomly selects inputs from the RV input space, (2) ADGF UZZ -N UM uses only Enum as the entropy metric for MISs, disabling Equal , (3) ADGF UZZ -QUAL uses only Equal as the entropy metric for MISs when calculating entropy. Table III shows the number of bugs discovered. Overall, ADGF UZZ -R ANDOM exhibits the lowest bug discovery efficiency, as it cannot focus on high-risk areas and mainly detects software crashes. ADGF UZZ -N UM 

guides exploration of longer assignment chains by considering semi-dependent node counts, uncovering bugs from boundary conditions or overflows. However, it neglects more complex semantic information, such as the logical relationships between variables, leading to the inability to capture bugs that would only trigger in specific semantic contexts. ADGF UZZ -Q UAL ,by guiding the test to explore input spaces with higher seman-tic richness, is capable of identifying latent errors in code logic involving complex variable interactions, resulting in a higher bug discovery rate, as it better mimics the program’s logical structure. By combining these two complementary strategies, ADGF UZZ enhances bug discovery. 

D. Evaluation of ADG–MIS Construction (RQ3) 

Accuracy. To evaluate the soundness of the ADG–MIS con-struction pipeline, we randomly sampled 150 ADG–MIS pairs generated during the static analysis phase. Two authors of this paper independently conducted manual cross-validation to assess the semantic correctness of the MIS inferred from each ADG. Specifically, we manually interpreted the semantic meaning of variable names in each ADG and identified terms containing essential contextual information, referred to as key terms. We then examined whether the corresponding MIS included RV inputs that could be reasonably inferred from these key terms, thereby verifying whether the MIS was semantically consistent with the ADG. Among the 150 ADG–MIS pairs, 131 (87.33%) were deemed accurate. The remaining 19 semantically inconsistent cases fall into three categories: (1) Semantically unreliable: In 14 cases, the variable names carried no meaningful se-mantics and no key terms could be extracted. This occurred when the ADG was constructed from abstract or temporary variables, such as Alpha , ptr_type , or default_list .(2) Semantic ambiguity: In 3 cases, semantic ambiguity in the variable names caused the key terms to be missed during MIS construction. As a result, the MIS was not generated based on the correct key term, for instance with variables like 

posvel . (3) Semantic irrelevance: In 2 cases, key terms were identified but had no semantic correlation with RV inputs, typically representing external interfaces or application-level concepts, such as ROS topics . Notably, cases (1) and (3) do not lead to bug omissions since these variables lack actionable semantic information. As a result, the terms matched in these cases are typically generic (e.g., type , default ), and the corresponding MISs tend to have low entropy values (as defined by our Equal -based metric). Therefore, these MISs are unlikely to be selected during the fuzzing phase. In case (2), where semantic ambiguity exists, the confusing term fails to establish a semantic link with any RV input and is thus skipped during the matching process. 

Effectiveness. We also investigated the frequency of naming matching failures and their potential impact on fuzzing per-formance. In ArduPilot, we identified 20,858 unique variables from the right-hand side of assignment statements. Our naming matching method successfully mapped 17,276 of these vari-ables to RV inputs, while 3,582 (17.17%) failed to match. These mismatched variables could not establish a semantic connection with RV inputs and were thus skipped during the static analysis phase. By collecting the MISs inferred from variables that suc-cessfully matched through naming, we found that they cover 99.98% (5005 out of 5006) of RV inputs. Therefore, the failure of naming matching does not lead to missed bugs or reduced coverage. This is because our name-matching method is robust to the small number of naming ambiguities. First, in most cases, MISs are not generated by a single variable but include multiple variables, making it less likely for all of them to fail matching. Additionally, the existence of non-ambiguous semantically equivalent contexts in other RV modules helps mitigate the impact of semantic matching failures. For example, the ambiguous term posvel appears only three times throughout the entire codebase, while the 11 semantically meaningful subterms pos and vel co-occur in twelve different locations. We note that when a semantically inaccurate MIS is sam-pled, it corresponds to testing a subset of the input space with-out the guidance of semantic information, which is unlikely to trigger bugs and leads to ineffective testing, thereby reducing fuzzing efficiency. However, our entropy-based prioritization mitigates this effect because these inaccurate MISs contain less useful information, have lower entropy, and are less likely to be selected during fuzzing. For instance, when we sampled 150 ADG-MIS pairs according to their entropy-based probability distribution, we found that 94.67% (142/150) of the inferences were semantically accurate. 

E. Effect of Exploitation (RQ4) 

We present a detailed analysis of three representative exam-ples identified by ADGF UZZ to demonstrate how these bugs may be exploited by adversaries to compromise a running RV. Each case is accompanied by a root cause analysis to explain the underlying mechanisms leading to the observed failures. 

1) Case Study 1 - Unexpected Voltage–Throttle Correlation Error Causing a Ground Crash: Each parameter remains within its documented valid range, and modifying either one individually does not trigger the bug. ADGF UZZ identified that the simultaneous satisfaction of two specific conditions can cause the rotor motors to shut down, causing the vehicle to crash into the ground. 

Attack. Consider a quadrotor hovering stably in mid-air (Figure 7a). An adversary can trigger a sudden loss of con-trol and an uncontrollable crash by slightly increasing the maximum battery voltage parameter ( MOT_BAT_VOLT_MAX )above the actual voltage level, while concurrently lowering 

MOT_PWM_MIN . Notably, adjusting either parameter indi-vidually does not affect the drone’s stability. As battery voltage naturally decreases during discharge, configuring a higher maximum voltage prompts the firmware to continuously compensate under the assumption of full voltage, thereby sustaining stable thrust output. In addition, operators often interpret MOT_PWM_MIN as the minimum idle throttle; setting it to a lower value is intended merely to reduce idle propeller speed at 0% throttle and is not expected to cause failure. 

Root Cause. As shown in Figure 8, the voltage compensation logic within the RV’s flight control software adjusts motor thrust to offset battery voltage fluctuations. The compensation factor ( compensation_gain ) is approximately computed as the ratio of the configured maximum voltage to the actual voltage (Line 3). For example, if MOT_BAT_VOLT_MAX 

is set to 45 .42 V and the actual voltage is 42 V , then 

compensation_gain ≈ 45 .42 /42 ≈ 1.08 . This leads to an approximate 8% amplification of all thrust-related control sig-nals (thrust, roll, pitch, yaw) (Lines 4–8). The flight controller utilizes a mixer algorithm to combine these control signals and assign a normalized thrust coefficient ( _actuator[i] ) to each motor (Lines 9–10), which is subsequently mapped to a Pulse-Width Modulation (PWM) value (Line 14) and applied to the corresponding output channel to drive the respective M1 

> Direction
> forward

M2 

M3 

M4 

(a) A quadcopter hovering in the air, powered by four propeller motors. 𝑀1 !"#                   

> 𝑀2 !"#
> 𝑀3 !"#
> 𝑀4 !"#
> 𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑢𝑠𝑡
> 𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑙
> 𝑝𝑖𝑡𝑐ℎ
> 𝑦𝑎𝑤
> 1−111
> 11−11
> 111−1
> 1−1−1−1
> =

(b) Mixer algorithm for adjusting mo-tor thrust. Fig. 7. (a) A quadcopter hovering in flight, stabilized by four propeller-driven motors. Arrows indicate the rotation direction of each propeller. (b) The mixer algorithm in the flight control software adjusts the thrust distribution across the four motors. 1 void AP_MotorsMatrix :: output_armed_stabilizing ()                                                                          

> 2{// apply voltage and air pressure compensation
> 3const float compensation_gain =thr_lin. get_compensation_gain ();
> 4const float roll_thrust = (_ roll_in + _ roll_in_ff ) * compensation_gain ;
> 5const float pitch_thrust = (_ pitch_in + _ pitch_in_ff ) * compensation_gain ;
> 6float yaw_thrust = (_ yaw_in + _ yaw_in_ff ) * compensation_gain ;
> 7float throttle_thrust =get_throttle () * compensation_gain ;
> 8float throttle_avg_max = _ throttle_avg_max *compensation_gain ;
> 9req_i =throttle_thrust +roll_thrust *mix_roll [i] +
> pitch_thrust *mix_pitch [i] + yaw_thrust *mix_yaw [i];
> 10 _actuator[ i] = constrain_float (req_i ,0.0f ,1.0f );
> 11 void AP_MotorsMulticopter :: output_motor_mask ()
> 12 {const int16_t pwm_min =get_pwm_output_min ();
> 13 const int16_t pwm_range =get_pwm_output_max () -pwm_min ;
> 14 int16_t pwm_output =pwm_min +pwm_range * _actuator[ i];
> 15 rc_write (i,pwm_output );
> //Buggy code
> //Buggy code

Fig. 8. A logic bug that results in the motor PWM output being set to an extremely low value. 

motor (Line 15). However, for the rear-right motor (M4) on the quadcopter, the mixer coefficients for roll, pitch, and yaw are all –1 (Figure 7b). When amplified, these negative correction signals accumulate, resulting in M 4pwm = thrust – roll –

pitch – yaw . With carefully crafted inputs, an attacker can cause _actuator[3] = 0. In such a case, M4’s PWM output is solely governed by pwm_min , which is determined directly by the parameter MOT_PWM_MIN . Setting this parameter to an extremely low value causes the Electronic Speed Controller (ESC) to interpret the signal as lost, resulting in a total motor shutdown and an unrecoverable ground crash. 

2) Case Study 2 - Incorrect Waypoint Detection Due to Position Estimation Discrepancy: During navigation tasks, an RV does not always require physically reaching a waypoint to consider it “arrived.” Instead, it precomputes a smooth trajectory between waypoints based on flight speed and inter-waypoint distance and estimates the time required to complete each segment. However, ADGF UZZ revealed that relying on precomputed timing without verifying the RV’s actual position can be exploited by adversaries to cause subtle route devia-tions, making the control software falsely assume waypoint completion even when the RV has deviated significantly. 

Attack. Consider an autonomous delivery rover assigned to visit a sequence of waypoints for package distribution (Fig-ure 9a). An adversary capable of modifying configuration parameters sets the ATC_SPEED_FF value far beyond its safe range. This manipulation of the speed feedforward gain causes the rover to accelerate significantly beyond its intended 12 Planned route         

> Actual route
> Waypoint(WP)
> WP1
> Attacker
> ❌
> speed = 5m/s
> WP2
> speed = 20m/s
> Manipulate
> configuration
> parameter (a) The planned vs. actual trajectory of the ground vehicle.
> (b) Comparison between the RV-estimated and actual dis-tances to the target waypoint. Fig. 9. An attacker launches an attack at the 4th second after the vehicle starts its delivery task, causing a sudden surge in speed. However, the RV control software continues to use incorrect logic for calculating the navigation distance.

velocity, reaching 20 m/s instead of the nominal 5m/s , as depicted in Figure 9b. Despite the rover rapidly passing by the waypoints, the RV control software continues to rely on flawed logic when calculating the vehicle’s distance to each waypoint. As a result, it erroneously concludes that the rover has successfully reached each navigation point, even though it has not. Consequently, all packages are incorrectly marked as delivered, leading to mission failure, lost cargo, and a heightened risk of collisions along the unintended route. 

Root Cause. This bug stems from two primary factors. First, ATC_SPEED_FF is not constrained by effective safety bounds. When set too high, it leads the speed controller to apply disproportionately large throttle outputs, causing the ve-hicle to operate at speeds far exceeding expectations. Second, the fast waypoint transition mechanism relies primarily on an internal timer derived from the basic kinematic relationship (distance = speed × time) rather than direct verification of the vehicle’s actual position. When the feedforward gain is increased excessively, the vehicle’s actual speed diverges from the nominal speed assumed in the timer calculation, invalidat-ing the timer as a proxy for position. Nevertheless, the RV control logic continues to rely on this flawed estimate, leading to misjudged waypoint arrivals and eventual task failure. 

3) Case Study 3 - Plane Crash Caused by Incorrect Pitch Gain Configuration: ADGF UZZ identified that a mechanism designed to smooth pitch dynamics, when misconfigured, can instead destabilize the aircraft and ultimately result in a crash. 

Attack. Consider an aircraft engaged in a reconnaissance mission, operating along a predetermined low-altitude flight path to monitor the coastline or perform mapping tasks. An adversary with the capability to manipulate or over-write configuration parameters may modify the parameter 

PTCH_RATE_D_FF , which governs the magnitude of pitch control, either prior to or during the flight. They may also con-strain the permissible range of downward pitch by setting the minimum pitch angle to a positive value, thereby preventing the aircraft from achieving a nose-down attitude. Under such constraints, when the aircraft encounters atmospheric turbu-lence or requires altitude reduction, the inability to achieve a sufficient nose-down pitch results in abrupt and excessive pitch   

> (a) Pitch angle over time. (b) Altitude over time. Fig. 10. Changes in pitch angle and altitude of the plane under attack.

responses. This dynamic destabilizes the flight control system, ultimately leading to an uncontrolled descent and crash. 

Root Cause. The identified bug stems from a conflict between the pitch control and throttle management safety logics in the RV control software. The Total Energy Control System (TECS) is designed to automatically reduce throttle when the aircraft’s nose is pointed downward, thereby leveraging gravitational force to assist in descent. However, if the mini-mum pitch angle configuration parameter TECS_PITCH_MIN 

is set to a positive value, the condition _PITCHminf < 0

can never be fulfilled, effectively disabling the logic branch responsible for throttle reduction during nose-down flight. As a result, even when the nose is slightly pitched downward, the system is unable to reduce throttle and is instead compelled to maintain or increase engine thrust. Once the throttle becomes effectively locked, TECS attempts to regulate altitude solely through incremental pitch adjustments. When the aircraft ascends slightly due to turbulence or inertia, TECS detects an altitude deviation above the setpoint and issues a downward pitch command. Conversely, when the altitude drops below the target, an upward pitch command is issued. This cycle leads to periodic altitude oscillations of several meters around the intended flight level (see Figure 10, 20–40 seconds). Moreover, the parameter PTCH_RATE_D_FF controls the feedforward amplification of pitch rate, providing extra control surface force based on the target rate. However, this parameter lacks proper bounds checking, allowing an attacker to assign an excessively large value. This causes small pitch adjustments to be amplified into full deflections (either maximum or minimum). When the aircraft attempts to recover from an excessive altitude, the pitch control surface may suddenly deflect fully downward (see Figure 10, after 40 seconds), leading to a catastrophic descent and ground impact while the engine remains at high throttle. VII. R ELATED WORK 

Security concerns in RVs have garnered increasing attention from researchers in recent years. Choi et al. [34] proposed a detection framework for RV attacks based on control invariants to defend against physical attacks. However, their approach is incapable of identifying bugs originating within the control software itself. RVFuzzer [5] targets input validation bugs in RV control software by employing a control instability detector, focusing on whether configuration parameter checks 13 are incorrectly implemented or entirely missing. Similarly, LGDFuzzer [7] leverages a learning-guided search strategy to identify range constraint violations caused by the interaction of multiple configuration parameters within RV systems. These methods concentrate on inputs related to control stability, overlooking control commands, environmental inputs, and nu-merous configuration parameters unrelated to control, thereby limiting their ability to detect other categories of bugs. Choi et al. [6] also introduced an approach that mutates environmental factors to validate flaws in RV security check mechanisms, but this method cannot uncover vulnerabilities present in other regions of the input space. PGFuzz [8] aims to detect policy violations stemming from design flaws or incorrect implementations; however, it heavily relies on the precision of manually specified policies and is restricted to security requirements derived from RV documentation. As a result, it fails to detect bugs caused by conflicting execution logic or undocumented implementation errors. In addition, PatchVerif [21] is designed to evaluate RV patch code to determine whether modifications successfully resolve existing issues or introduce new ones. Its scope is limited to inputs associated with the patch code itself, with the primary goal of exposing behavioral differences. In contrast, ADGFUZZ explores input subspaces to uncover bugs triggered by complex interactions among inputs. Traditional fuzz testing techniques [35], [36], [37], [38] for conventional software primarily focus on detecting memory overflow vulnerabilities. However, for inputs that do not cause memory overflows, there are no well-defined evaluation met-rics. ADGF UZZ by analyzing the assignment relationships between variables, is able to detect security issues that are independent of memory, such as falling caused by accumulated computational inaccuracies and deviations from the planned flight route. There are other RV-related research works, including bug forensics and localization in RVs based on flight log analy-sis [17], [39], [16], automated patch generation and repair [40], and sensor-targeted attacks in RV systems [41], [42], [43], [44], [45], [46], [47]. These topics fall outside the scope of our work. VIII. D ISCUSSION AND LIMITATION 

A. Temporal Gap Between Bug Activation and Detection 

A subtle yet critical challenge in RV control software is the temporal gap between the triggering of a bug and its eventual detection. Unlike traditional software, where bugs often result in immediate crashes or explicit error codes, certain bugs in RV software may only manifest after a sequence of events, often with delayed or uncertain timing. A representative ex-ample arises in waypoint navigation tasks, where the vehicle is expected to follow a predefined trajectory (e.g., Fig. 1). If the RV deviates in a direction that aligns with its intended heading, the deviation might remain undetected until it reaches the designated waypoint. In such cases, the bug is triggered well before the waypoint is reached, but detection may be (a) Copter (b) Plane (c) Rover  

> Fig. 11. Three real-world RV: (a) quadrotor (Z410), (b) fixed-wing aircraft (HeeWing-T2), and (c) unmanned ground vehicle (CQR).

significantly delayed or, in the worst-case scenario, completely missed if the testing duration expires beforehand. To mitigate this issue, we designed navigation tasks that incorporate frequent turning maneuvers, which continually alter the RV’s expected heading. This increases the chances of exposing bugs related to waypoint deviation and helps keep the temporal gap within a manageable range. 

B. Limitations of SITL 

SITL-based testing provides a fast, controllable, and re-producible environment for uncovering logic-level bugs in RV control software. However, SITL cannot accurately reflect hardware-specific issues such as sensor noise, actuator fail-ures, hardware-induced latency, or electrical faults. Integrating ADGF UZZ with Hardware-in-the-Loop (HITL) testing [48], [49] is a potential solution, but such approaches require significant hardware resources and engineering overhead. Im-portantly, all bugs identified by ADGF UZZ are unrelated to hardware-specific issues. We validated these bugs on three different types of real-world RVs (Figure 11). Among the 87 bugs discovered, 45 can be reproduced on real-world RVs, while 42 are simulator-only, caused by SITL-specific param-eters (detailed in §IX-D). For example, SIM_PLD_ENABLE 

can trigger a crash in simulation but has no effect on real RVs, as such inputs are unavailable outside SITL. Nevertheless, these bugs are still valuable, as they expose weaknesses in control logic and may indicate potential risks when similar logic is reused in flight-critical modules. Moreover, we note that ADGF UZZ cannot test assignment statements that are inactive in simulation but exercised in real-world scenarios. 

C. Portability ADGF UZZ to Other Platforms 

Our approach relies on extracting assignment dependencies and associating RV inputs with source code variables based on naming semantics. However, if most variable names lack semantic meaning or the source code is entirely unavailable, our approach becomes inapplicable. In such scenarios, the static analysis phase fails to construct meaningful ADGs, thereby hindering MIS extraction and entropy-aware fuzzing. We acknowledge this limitation and emphasize that ADGF UZZ 

is primarily designed for open-source, semantically rich flight control software such as ArduPilot [9] and PX4 [50]. For standardized and open-source RV platforms, users can adapt ADGF UZZ to other systems by following five steps: (1) Construct the ADG from the RV software’s source code. 14 (2) Identify user-controllable RV inputs to infer MISs from the ADGs. (3) Examine the semantic mapping between ADG variables and RV inputs. Identify missing but semantically similar (variable term, input term) pairs and update the term association tables accordingly. Then regenerate MISs. (4) Modify the input injection and feedback processing modules according to differences in the communication protocol, to support fuzzing execution and oracle judgment. (5) Finally, eliminate false positives by examining whether the input’s intended functionality inherently causes the observed behavior (see §IX-A). The effort depends on the similarity between the target RV software and ArduPilot. For example, PX4 shares the same naming conventions with ArduPilot, allowing us to skip Step (1). We spent approximately one hour on Steps (2), (3), and (5). During this time, we updated the term association table with two new data sets specifically for PX4. Although PX4 also uses MAVLink as its communication protocol, it differs in implementation; we spent 7 hours modifying 173 lines of code to address these differences. Bugs found in PX4 are described in §IX-E. IX. C ONCLUSION 

We propose ADGF UZZ , a novel fuzzing framework specif-ically designed to detect assignment statement bugs in RV control software. ADGF UZZ identifies data dependencies be-tween assignment statements and RV multi-source inputs by exploiting naming similarities. It subsequently applies entropy-aware fuzzing over the derived RV inputs to improve the efficiency of bug detection. In our evaluation, ADGF UZZ 

uncovered 87 unique bugs across three RV types, 78 of which were previously unknown. All found bugs were responsibly disclosed to the developers, and 16 have been confirmed for fixing. ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

We thank the anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments and valuable suggestions, which helped improve the quality of this paper. This project is supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No.92467201). ETHICS CONSIDERATIONS 

We have responsibly reported all discovered bugs to the developers of the RV software and collaborated with them to facilitate timely remediation. The attacks described in the case studies were conducted strictly for research purposes and were validated only in simulation environments. REFERENCES [1] Aerial Photography, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://www.wgpdigital. com/aerial-photography/ [2] Aerial Light Show, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://www.ehang.com/ formation/ [3] Drone Formation Performance, 2025. [Online]. Available: https: //en.hg-fly.com/lightshow.html [4] The world’s best military drones in 2025 and their capabilities, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://shorturl.at/3VF9a [5] T. Kim, C. H. Kim, J. Rhee, F. Fei, Z. Tu, G. Walkup, X. Zhang, X. Deng, and D. Xu, “RVFuzzer: Finding input validation bugs in robotic vehicles through Control-Guided testing,” in 28th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 19) . Santa Clara, CA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2019, pp. 425–442. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity19/presentation/kim [6] H. Choi, S. Kate, Y. Aafer, X. Zhang, and D. Xu, “Cyber-physical inconsistency vulnerability identification for safety checks in robotic vehicles,” in Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , ser. CCS ’20. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2020, p. 263–278. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3372297.3417249 [7] R. Han, C. Yang, S. Ma, J. Ma, C. Sun, J. Li, and E. Bertino, “Control parameters considered harmful: detecting range specification bugs in drone configuration modules via learning-guided search,” in Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on Software Engineering , ser. ICSE ’22. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2022, p. 462–473. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3510003.3510084 [8] H. Kim, M. O. Ozmen, A. Bianchi, Z. B. Celik, and D. Xu, “PGFUZZ: policy-guided fuzzing for robotic vehicles,” in 28th Annual Network and Distributed System Security Symposium, NDSS 2021, virtually, February 21-25, 2021 . The Internet Society, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss-paper/ pgfuzz-policy-guided-fuzzing-for-robotic-vehicles/ [9] ArduPilot, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://ardupilot.org/ [10] SITL Simulator (Software in the Loop), 2025. [Online]. Available: https://ardupilot.org/dev/docs/sitl-simulator-software-in-the-loop.html [11] ArduPilot Copter, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://ardupilot.org/copter/ [12] ArduCopter Complete Parameter List, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/parameters.html [13] A. Abdallah, M. Z. Ali, J. Miˇ si´ c, and V. B. Miˇ si´ c, “Efficient security scheme for disaster surveillance uav communication networks,” Infor-mation , vol. 10, no. 2, p. 43, 2019. [14] S. Lee and K. Kim, “Grand theft drone: Reaching breaking point in drone proprietary rf link security,” in Black Hat Europe 2022 , London, UK, 2022, technical briefing. [15] Y. Mekdad, A. Acar, A. Aris, A. El Fergougui, M. Conti, R. Lazzeretti, and S. Uluagac, “Exploring jamming and hijacking attacks for micro aerial drones,” in ICC 2024 - IEEE International Conference on Com-munications , 2024, pp. 1939–1944. [16] C. Lee, D. Kim, G. Kim, S. Lee, and T. Kim, “LTA: control-driven UAV testing and bug localization with flight record decomposition,” in 

Proceedings of the 22nd ACM Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems, SenSys 2024, Hangzhou, China, November 4-7, 2024 ,J. Liu, Y. Shu, J. Chen, Y. He, and R. Tan, Eds. ACM, 2024, pp. 450–463. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3666025.3699350 [17] T. Kim, C. H. Kim, A. Ozen, F. Fei, Z. Tu, X. Zhang, X. Deng, D. J. Tian, and D. Xu, “From control model to program: Investigating robotic aerial vehicle accidents with MAYDAY,” in 

29th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 20) . USENIX Association, Aug. 2020, pp. 913–930. [Online]. Available: https: //www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity20/presentation/kim [18] P. Moosbrugger, K. Y. Rozier, and J. Schumann, “R2u2: monitoring and diagnosis of security threats for unmanned aerial systems,” Formal Methods in System Design , vol. 51, pp. 31–61, 2017. [19] ArduPilot Style Guide, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://shorturl.at/ BFKnX [20] ArduPilot parameter naming guidelines, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://shorturl.at/JFhCU [21] H. Kim, M. O. Ozmen, Z. B. Celik, A. Bianchi, and D. Xu, “PatchVerif: Discovering faulty patches in robotic vehicles,” in 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 23) . Anaheim, CA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2023, pp. 3011–3028. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/ usenixsecurity23/presentation/kim-hyungsub [22] ArduPilot Style Guide-Commenting, 2025. [Online]. Available: https: //shorturl.at/u4Lie [23] C. E. Shannon, “A mathematical theory of communication,” 

SIGMOBILE Mob. Comput. Commun. Rev. , vol. 5, no. 1, p. 3–55, Jan. 2001. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/584091.584093 [24] ArduCopter Commands, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://shorturl.at/ n7vLW 

15 [25] ArduPilot Code, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/ArduPilot/ ardupilot [26] ArduPlane Complete Parameter List, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://ardupilot.org/plane/docs/parameters.html [27] Rover Complete Parameter List, 2025. [Online]. Available: https: //ardupilot.org/rover/docs/parameters.html [28] PYMAVLink, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/ArduPilot/ pymavlink [29] A. A. Laghari, A. K. Jumani, R. A. Laghari, and H. Nawaz, “Unmanned aerial vehicles: A review,” Cognitive Robotics , vol. 3, pp. 8–22, 2023. [30] ArduPilot Plane, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://ardupilot.org/plane/ [31] ArduPilot Rover, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://ardupilot.org/rover/ [32] MAVProxy, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://ardupilot.org/mavproxy/ [33] MAVLink, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://mavlink.io/en/ [34] H. Choi, W.-C. Lee, Y. Aafer, F. Fei, Z. Tu, X. Zhang, D. Xu, and X. Deng, “Detecting attacks against robotic vehicles: A control invariant approach,” in Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , ser. CCS ’18. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2018, p. 801–816. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.3243752 [35] Z.-M. Jiang, J.-J. Bai, K. Lu, and S.-M. Hu, “Context-sensitive and directional concurrency fuzzing for data-race detection,” 01 2022. [36] D. She, A. Shah, and S. S. Jana, “Effective seed scheduling for fuzzing with graph centrality analysis,” 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pp. 2194–2211, 2022. [37] S. Gan, C. Zhang, P. Chen, B. Zhao, X. Qin, D. Wu, and Z. Chen, “GREYONE: Data flow sensitive fuzzing,” in 29th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 20) . USENIX Association, Aug. 2020, pp. 2577–2594. [Online]. Available: https: //www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity20/presentation/gan [38] libFuzzer – a library for coverage-guided fuzz testing, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html [39] H. Choi, Z. Cheng, and X. Zhang, “Rvplayer: Robotic vehicle forensics by replay with what-if reasoning,” 01 2022. [40] H. Kim, M. O. Ozmen, Z. B. Celik, A. Bianchi, and D. Xu, “Pgpatch: Policy-guided logic bug patching for robotic vehicles,” in 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , 2022, pp. 1826–1844. [41] H. Kim, R. Bandyopadhyay, M. O. Ozmen, Z. B. Celik, A. Bianchi, Y. Kim, and D. Xu, “A systematic study of physical sensor attack hardness,” in 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , 2024, pp. 2328–2347. [42] D. Davidson, H. Wu, R. Jellinek, T. Ristenpart, and V. Singh, “Control-ling uavs with sensor input spoofing attacks,” in Proceedings of the 10th USENIX Conference on Offensive Technologies , ser. WOOT’16. USA: USENIX Association, 2016, p. 221–231. [43] J. Jang, M. Cho, J. Kim, D. Kim, and Y. Kim, “Paralyzing drones via EMI signal injection on sensory communication channels,” in 30th Annual Network and Distributed System Security Symposium, NDSS 2023, San Diego, California, USA, February 27 - March 3, 2023 . The Internet Society, 2023. [44] J. Jeong, D. Kim, J. Jang, J. Noh, C. Song, and Y. Kim, “Un-rocking drones: Foundations of acoustic injection attacks and recovery thereof,” in 30th Annual Network and Distributed System Security Symposium, NDSS 2023, San Diego, California, USA, February 27 - March 3, 2023 .The Internet Society, 2023. [45] K. C. Zeng, S. Liu, Y. Shu, D. Wang, H. Li, Y. Dou, G. Wang, and Y. Yang, “All your GPS are belong to us: Towards stealthy manipulation of road navigation systems,” in 27th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 18) . Baltimore, MD: USENIX Association, Aug. 2018, pp. 1527–1544. [Online]. Available: https: //www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity18/presentation/zeng [46] H. Sathaye, M. Strohmeier, V. Lenders, and A. Ranganathan, “An experimental study of GPS spoofing and takeover attacks on UAVs,” in 31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 22) . Boston, MA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2022, pp. 3503–3520. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/ usenixsecurity22/presentation/sathaye [47] Y. Xu, X. Han, G. Deng, J. Li, Y. Liu, and T. Zhang, “Sok: Rethinking sensor spoofing attacks against robotic vehicles from a systematic view,” in 2023 IEEE 8th European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P) . IEEE, 2023, pp. 1082–1100. [48] ArduPilot HITL Simulators, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://ardupilot. org/dev/docs/hitl-simulators.html [49] PX4 Hardware in the Loop Simulation, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://docs.px4.io/v1.12/en/simulation/hitl.html [50] PX4 Open Source Autopilot, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://px4.io [51] C. Romeo, “Developers dislike security: Ten frustrations and resolu-tions,” Presentation at RSA Conference 2021, May 2021. [52] R. Mohanani, I. Salman, B. Turhan, P. Rodr´ ıguez, and P. Ralph, “Cognitive biases in software engineering: A systematic mapping study,” 

IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering , vol. 46, no. 12, pp. 1318– 1339, 2020. [53] jMAVSim. Simple multirotor simulator with MAVLink protocol support, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/PX4/jMAVSim 

APPENDIX 

A. RV-Inherent False Positives 

We list several inputs below that cause false pos-itives. The configuration parameters MOT_PWM_MAX and 

SIM_ENGINE_MUL affect motor output; setting them too low or to zero leads to insufficient thrust or disabled throt-tle, causing the vehicle to descend uncontrollably. Simi-larly, SIM_GPS1_ENABLE disables GPS simulation when set to zero, triggering EKF failsafe and switching to 

LAND mode. The commands MAV_CMD_NAV_LAND and 

MAV_CMD_COMPONENT_ARM_DISARM also cause inten-tional descent or immediate motor shutdown, which may be misclassified as ”crash on the ground” by the oracle. Addition-ally, combining MAV_CMD_DO_CHANGE_SPEED to reduce velocity with a high wind speed ( SIM_WIND_SPD ) can result in route deviation if the drone lacks sufficient forward motion. Excessively large values for SIM_GPS1_POS_X , POS_Y , and 

POS_Z may cause abnormal GPS jumps, leading to false ”route deviation” reports. Modifying SYSID_THISMAV can break GCS communication, triggering a false ”software crash” detection. These input combinations were manually excluded during result analysis by one of the authors. 

B. An Example ADG–MIS Pair 

Figure 12 shows the ADG constructed from the code snippet in Figure 2, along with the corresponding MIS de-rived from that ADG. For clarity, some data elements have been omitted. Variables and RV input terms with semantic associations are highlighted using the same color. 

C. Exploration Behavior of Entropy-Based Fuzzing Strategy 

Thorough exploration of the input space remains a fun-damental challenge in fuzzing. To quantify the exploration behavior of our entropy-based strategy and assess whether it introduces biased exploration or misses corner cases, we stratified all MISs into four entropy intervals in descending order: A – (75%, 100%], B – (50%, 75%], C – (25%, 50%], and D – [0%, 25%]. From each interval, we randomly selected 100 MISs and measured their cumulative code coverage after execution. Figure 13 shows a Venn diagram of coverage overlap across the four groups. High-entropy MISs generally trigger more unique paths and achieve higher overall coverage, while low-entropy MISs still expose rare paths, retaining value for corner-case discovery. The distribution of bugs across entropy intervals further confirms this trend: across three RVs, we observed 217, 140, 121, and 45 bug-triggering cases from 16 s_finished          

> _wp _radius _cm get_corner_ accel _flags.fast_ waypoint _track_scalar_dt
> track_scaler_dt dt track_scaler_tc
> get_ wp _acce
> leration
> _wp _jerk track_velocity get_ pos _kP track_error curr _target
> _vel .length
> _inav_ velocity _neu .
> dot_ track _direction
> _pos _control _error .
> dot_ track _direction
> Root
> Leaf
> Semi
> Semi
> Semi Semi

...     

> Semi Leaf
> Leaf Leaf
> Leaf
> Leaf Leaf
> Leaf Leaf Leaf

(a) ADG   

> WP _YAW_BEHAVIOR, WP _NAVALT_MIN, MAV_CMD_NAV_ WAYPOINT , ...
> ADSB_LIST_ RADIUS , CIRCLE_ RADIUS , FENCE_ RADIUS , WPNAV_ RADIUS , ...
> AVOID_ ACCEL _MAX, ATC_ ACCEL _{R/P/Y}_MAX, INS_ ACCEL _FILTER,
> WPNAV_ ACCEL ,ANGLE _MAX, AVOID_ ANGLE _MAX, ATC_ ANGLE _BOOST, ...
> FLOW_ POS _X, RNGFND{*}_ POS _{X/Y/Z}, SIM_SONAR_ POS _X, ...
> AROT_FWD_SP_ TARG , SIM_SB_ALT_ TARG
> MOT_BAT_ CURR _TC, MOT_BAT_ CURR _MAX, BATT_ CURR _PIN, ...
> EK2_ VEL _I_GATE, EK3_ VEL _I_GATE, AVOID_BACKUP_ SPD , SIM_WIND_ SPD , ...
> ZIGZ_ DIRECTION
> MAV_CMD_DO_ CONTROL _VIDEO, MAV_CMD_DO_MOUNT_ CONTROL , ...
> MAV_CMD_CAMERA_ TRACK _POINT, MAV_CMD_CAMERA_ TRACK _RECTANGLE

(b) MIS 

> wp/
> waypoint
> radius
> accel/
> acceleration
> (angle)
> track
> pos
> target
> (targ )
> curr
> vel/
> velocity
> (spd )
> direction
> control

Fig. 12. An illustrative ADG–MIS pair generated from a real code snippet (from Figure 2), highlighting the semantic mapping between code variables and RV inputs. 30794     

> 700
> 79
> 169
> (a) Copter
> A
> 34791
> B
> 34313
> C
> 33528
> D
> 31810
> 1278
> 1064
> 820
> 247
> 32
> 730 254
> 221
> 22
> 12
> 2
> A: (75% ,100%]
> B: (50% ,75%]
> C: (25% ,50%]
> D: [0% , 25%]
> 31965
> 123
> 133
> 95
> (b) Plane
> A
> 35047
> B
> 34638
> C
> 34420
> D
> 33029
> 1041
> 503
> 925
> 535
> 489
> 534 370
> 228
> 61
> 97
> 6626352
> 140
> 38
> 115
> (c) Rover
> A
> 28915
> B
> 28547
> C
> 28170
> D
> 27066
> 694
> 300
> 744
> 277
> 164
> 608 312
> 224
> 80
> 91
> 86

Fig. 13. Venn diagram illustrating the overlap and uniqueness of code coverage achieved by MISs from different entropy intervals. 

the highest to the lowest entropy groups. Therefore, ADGF UZZ 

employs a hybrid strategy: prioritizing high-entropy MISs for efficiency and early bug discovery, while periodically exploring low-entropy MISs to avoid missing critical cases. 

D. List of Discovered Bugs and Impact Assessment 

Table IV presents a comprehensive list of all bugs discov-ered by ADGF UZZ in ArduPilot. For each bug, we provide: (1) the index number, (2) the affected RV type(s), (3) the input that triggers the bug, (4) a brief description of the bug, (5) the impact type reflecting its severity, (6) the reproducibility status on real RVs, and (7) whether upstream developers have considered fixing it. Among these, item (5), the type of impact, is used to characterize the nature and severity of the bug. We systematically classify impact types into three cate-gories: security-critical, safety-relevant, and usability-related. Security-critical bugs can be triggered by external or untrusted inputs and lead to software crashes, overflows, or denial-of-service. Safety-relevant bugs are not necessarily caused by attackers; they may also result from user misconfigurations or improper usage. These bugs can cause abnormal or hazardous physical behavior during RV operation (e.g., thrust loss or crashes). Usability-related bugs mainly indicate insufficient software robustness. Although they typically do not affect the physical world and are less severe, they can reveal underlying flaws in control logic. Among the 87 bugs identified, #1–26 are crash-to-ground, #27–41 are route deviations, and the remaining ones are software crash bugs. We classified 15 of them as security-critical, 31 as safety-relevant, and the remaining 41 as usability issues. We reproduced 45 of these bugs on real-world RVs (Figure 11), and the observed behavior was highly consistent with that in the SITL simulation environment. The bugs that could not be reproduced on physical RVs were mainly due to one of the following reasons: (1) the relevant inputs are not used by real hardware (e.g., parameters like SIM RATE HZ are only effective in the simulator), or (2) we were unable to recreate the specific environmental conditions required to trigger the bug (e.g., strong wind). For the bugs that developers chose not to fix, our communi-cation with the ArduPilot maintainers revealed two main rea-sons: First, repair difficulty. Developers noted that comprehen-sive parameter checks are impractical on resource-constrained devices due to increased code size and performance impact. Moreover, some parameters inherently lack a well-defined legal range, making it difficult to enforce a universal validation rule. For example, the minimum acceptable PWM value varies significantly across different models of Electronic Speed Con-trollers (ESCs): some stop at 1000, while others stop at 1150. Thus, fixed thresholds may be inappropriate or even harmful. Second, cognitive bias. Although developers acknowledged the existence of external or internal adversaries, many expressed the view that ArduPilot is merely one component of a larger system, and that security enforcement should be handled at the communication link level or by external systems. This reflects a cognitive bias in the perception of security responsibility, which downplays potential risks and shifts accountability for mitigation [51], [52]. Given these considerations, developers tend to avoid fixing such issues even when the abnormal behavior is confirmed. 

E. Bugs Discovered in PX4 

After applying ADGF UZZ to PX4 [50] (with jMAVSim [53] simulator), we identified 35 bugs in the quadcopter, including 5 software crashes, 26 ground crashes, and 4 route deviation bugs. Among these, 22 bugs were triggered by a single input, 10 by two inputs, 2 by three inputs, and 1 by four inputs. Unlike ArduPilot, where many bugs are associated with simulator-only parameters, the PX4 bugs are triggered by inputs that remain valid on real vehicles. Although these bugs were first observed in simulation, they stem from assignment dependencies within the same control logic executed on actual robotic vehicles, highlighting their potential real-world impact. 17 Table IV. Bugs Discovered by ADGF UZZ in ArduPilot. We use C to denote Copter, P for Plane, and R for Rover. 

Index RV Type Inputs Description Impact Type Reproducibility Status 

1 C AHRS_EKF_TYPE Assigning special values (e.g., 0 or 11) to this parameter results in the copter crashing to the ground. Safety Yes Pending 2 C SERVO3_FUNCTION Setting this parameter to special values (e.g., 141) leads to thrust loss and the copter crashes. Safety Yes Pending 3 C MOT_BAT_CURR_MAX, MOT_PWM_MIN 

Setting either parameter individually does not induce issues; however, concurrently assigning both parameters to small values results in complete loss of thrust and a crash. Safety Yes Yes 4 C FLTMODE_CH Assigning a special value (e.g., 8) to this parameter leads to thrust loss and a subsequent crash. Safety Yes Pending 5 C AHRS_EKF_TYPE, AHRS_TRIM_X Assigning these two parameters to 2 and the minimum legal value (-0.1745), respectively, causes the copter to crash to the ground. Safety Yes Pending 6 C SIM_GPS1_LAG_MS Setting to a large value leads to unstable flight attitude,leading to a crash after a short period. Usability No No 7 C SIM_TIME_JITTER,MAV_CMD_DO_SET_MODE Causes the copter to crash to the ground. Safety No No 8 C MOT_BAT_VOLT_MAX, MOT_PWM_MIN 

Setting either parameter independently does not cause adverse effects; however, assigning both parameters simultaneously results in thrust loss and a crash. Safety Yes Yes 9 C FS_THR_VALUE Setting to the maximum legal value (1100) prevents the safety mechanism from triggering, causes the copter to crash. Safety Yes Pending 10 C SIM_RATE_HZ Assigning values within a specific range (e.g., 85) causes the copter to flip unstably and fall to the ground. Usability No No 11 C MAV_CMD_NAV_LOITER_UNLIM Normal use of this command unexpectedly changes the copter’s flight mode, causing it to hit the ground. Safety Yes Yes 12 C Multiple MOT_SPIN_MIN During waypoint navigation, setting MOT_SPIN_MIN to 0.6 causes the copter to climb after reaching the waypoint. Restoring it to the nominal 0.15 corrects the altitude. Setting it to 0.6 again results in a brief climb followed by a stall and crash. Safety Yes Yes 13 P SIM_SERVO_SPEED Inadequate validation of parameter ranges allows a value of 100, which results in the plane crashing. Usability No No 14 P TECS_PITCH_MIN, PTCH_RATE_D_FF 

When the mission waypoint altitude is set to 30 meters, assigning large values to these parameters causes the plane to first climb to approximately 50 meters, then rapidly descend and crash. Safety Yes Pending 15 P RCMAP_PITCH Assigning special values (e.g., 10 or 16) causes the plane to gradually lose altitude and ultimately crash. Safety Yes Pending 16 P AIRSPEED_MIN If the plane cannot reach the target speed under current parameter settings, it lowers its pitch and altitude to accelerate, which may lead to gradual descent and eventual crash. Safety Yes Pending 17 P ARSPD_OFFSET No proper range checking; large values cause the plane to crash to the ground. Safety Yes Pending 18 P TECS_SPD_OMEGA Large values cause linear speed reduction and eventual crash. Safety Yes Pending 19 P SIM_SERVO_DELAY Small values cause the plane to flip in flight and rapidly crash. Usability No No 20 P PTCH2SRV_RMAX_UP Assigning small values causes the plane to crash. Safety Yes Pending 21 P ICE_ENABLE Out-of-range values incorrectly cause the plane to crash to the ground. Safety Yes Pending 22 P TECS_TIME_CONST Assigning large values leads to deceleration and eventual crash. Safety Yes Pending 23 P PTCH2SRV_RLL Assigning large values causes the plane to overshoot the prescribed waypoint altitude and oscillate at high altitudes; if the waypoint altitude is below 20 meters, the plane crashes. Safety Yes Pending 24 P AIRSPEED_STALL Setting to large values causes the plane to crash to the ground. Safety Yes Pending 25 C&P SIM_CAN_SRV_MSK Assigning special values (e.g., 10 or 30) causes the plane to lose power and crash. Usability No Pending 26 C&P BARO_ALT_OFFSET Assigning large values results in the plane descending during flight and crashing. Safety Yes Pending 27 C MOT_PWM_MIN When set to the maximum value, the copter rapidly ascends and deviates from waypoints. After some distance, it erroneously marks waypoints as reached, eventually recording all waypoints as completed despite not having actually reached them. Safety Yes Yes 28 C MOT_SPIN_MIN Same as above. Safety Yes Yes 29 C SIM_GPS1_LAG_MS Lack of proper value constraints allows large values to cause the copter to deviate from the planned flight path. Usability No No 30 C ANGLE_MAX, SIM_WIND_SPD With a small ANGLE_MAX (e.g., 1600) and high wind speed, the copter cannot complete turns due to tilt angle limitations. Safety Yes Yes 31 C SIM_WIND_TURB Values above 10 cause attitude oscillation and speed fluctuations, leading to flight path deviation. Usability No No 32 C AHRS_EKF_TYPE, AHRS_TRIM_X Changing both parameters simultaneously causes the copter to deviate from its planned route and eventually crash. Safety Yes Pending 33 P RCMAP_ROLL Assigning a special value (e.g., 6) to this parameter causes the plane to abort the mission and immediately enter a loitering state. Safety Yes Pending 34 P SIM_SERVO_SPEED Assigning a low value to this parameter results in the plane lacking a fixed trajectory and deviating from the planned route. Usability No No 35 R ATC_SPEED_FF Assigning the maximum value to this parameter causes the rover to deviate from the planned route and, after a period, incorrectly report waypoint completion even when distant from the waypoint (Similar to No.27). Safety Yes Yes 36 R SIM_CAN_SRV_MSK Setting the third bit to 1 (e.g., 0100 or 1110) causes the rover to rapidly move in the direction opposite to the intended route. Usability No Pending 37 R BATT_ARM_MAH, SIM_TIME_JITTER 

When both parameters are assigned large values, the rover fails to recognize arrival at the target waypoint, instead lingering nearby. Usability No No 38 R ATC_STR_RAT_FF Assigning large values stalls the rover near the target, ending the navigation task. Safety Yes Pending 39 R FRAME_CLASS Assigning large values stalls the rover near the target, ending the navigation task. Safety Yes Pending 40 R FENCE_RADIUS, FENCE_ENABLE When these parameters are assigned after the rover has moved, it detects a fence violation but fails to trigger RTL, causing the vehicle to freeze instead of returning to the home position. Safety Yes Pending 41 R ATC_SPEED_D_FF Assigning large values causes the rover to slow to zero speed near a waypoint, then quickly reverse course, repeatedly approaching and departing the waypoint in a loop. Safety Yes Pending 42 C SIM_BATT_VOLTAGE Assigning large values to this parameter results in a floating-point exception and subsequent software crash. Usability No No 43 C SIM_TIME_JITTER, SIM_RATE_HZ 

Setting SIM_TIME_JITTER to a large value with a low SIM_RATE_HZ causes a software crash after approximately two seconds of delay. Usability No No 44 C MAV_CMD_NAV_LOITER_TO_ALT Excessive x/y/z values cause overflow and crash the flight control software. Security Yes Yes 45 P SIM_ACC_FILE_RW When set to the special value 3, a delay of a few seconds results in “EOF on TCP stack”, after which SITL becomes unresponsive. Usability No Pending 46 R AHRS_EKF_TYPE Assigning the special value 2 triggers a floating-point exception, causing a rover software crash. Security Yes Pending 47 R INS_LOG_BAT_LGCT Assigning the special value 0 triggers a floating-point exception, resulting in a rover software crash. Security Yes Pending 48 R SIM_WIND_T_ALT Assigning the special value 0 triggers a floating-point exception, resulting in a rover software crash. Usability No No 49 R SIM_MAG_ALY_HGT Assigning the special value 0 triggers a floating-point exception, resulting in a rover software crash. Usability No No 50 R SIM_CAN_SRV_MSK Assigning special values 7 or 21 causes the rover to spin erratically, followed by a software crash due to floating-point overflow after one to two seconds. Usability No No 51 C&P SIM_RATE_HZ Setting this value too low (0–22) triggers a floating-point exception and results in a software crash. Usability No No 52 C&P GPS2_TYPE Assigning the special value 11 results in a segmentation fault and software crash. Security Yes Pending 53 C&P SIM_WIND_TURB Assigning a large value to this parameter results in a floating-point exception and subsequent software crash. Usability No No 54 C&P TERRAIN_SPACING Setting this parameter to a value less than 1 (sub-meter accuracy) leads to floating-point overflow and software crash. Security Yes Yes 55-57 C&P SIM_IMU_POS_X/SIM_IMU_POS_Y/ SIM_IMU_POS_Z Assigning large values to this parameter results in a floating-point exception and subsequent software crash. Usability No No 58-62 C&P&R 

INS_GYROFFS_X/INS_GYROFFS_Y/ INS_GYR2OFFS_X/INS_GYR2OFFS_Y/ INS_GYR2OFFS_Z 

Assigning large values to this parameter results in a floating-point exception and subsequent software crash. Security Yes No 63 C&P&R SIM_DRIFT_SPEED Assigning large values to this parameter results in a floating-point exception and subsequent software crash. Usability No No 64-69 C&P&R 

SIM_ACC1_BIAS_X/SIM_ACC1_BIAS_Y/ SIM_ACC1_BIAS_Z/SIM_ACC2_BIAS_X/ SIM_ACC2_BIAS_Y/SIM_ACC2_BIAS_Z 

Assigning large values to this parameter results in a floating-point exception and subsequent software crash. Usability No No 70-75 C&P&R 

SIM_GYR1_BIAS_X/SIM_GYR1_BIAS_Y/ SIM_GYR1_BIAS_Z/SIM_GYR2_BIAS_X/ SIM_GYR2_BIAS_Y/SIM_GYR2_BIAS_Z 

Assigning large values to this parameter results in a floating-point exception and subsequent software crash. Usability No No 76,77 C&P&R SIM_GPS1_GLTCH_X/SIM_GPS1_GLTCH_Y Assigning large values to this parameter results in a floating-point exception and subsequent software crash. Usability No No 78,79 C&P&R SIM_GPS1_HZ/ SIM_GPS2_HZ Assigning the special value 0 triggers a floating-point exception and results in a software crash. Usability No No 80 C&P&R SIM_PLD_ENABLE Assigning the special value 1 triggers a “PANIC” event, rendering the flight control software unresponsive. Usability No Yes 81 C&P&R SIM_SONAR_SCALE Assigning the special value 0 triggers a floating-point exception and results in a software crash. Usability No No 82 C&P&R SERIAL_PASS2 Assigning special values 0 or 3 causes the software to become unresponsive and the UAV to display a “no link” message. Security Yes Pending 83 C&P&R SIM_GYR_FILE_RW Assigning the special value 1 or 3 triggers a “PANIC” event, resulting in unresponsive flight control software. Usability No Yes 84 C&P&R MAV_CMD_CAN_FORWARD Setting a large first value (e.g., [498, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0] ) triggers a segmentation fault and crashes the software. Security Yes Yes 85 C&P&R MAV_CMD_DO_SET_HOME Supplying excessively large values in the x/y/z data fields (e.g., [x, x, x, x, 399, 300, 699] ) causes overflow. Security Yes Yes 86 C&P&R MAV_CMD_DO_SET_ROI_LOCATION Supplying excessively large values for x/y/z position data leads to overflow and subsequently causes software crashes. Security Yes Yes 87 C&P&R MAV_CMD_EXTERNAL_POSITION_ESTIMATE Supplying excessively large values for x/y/z position data leads to overflow and software crashes. Security Yes Yes 

18 APPENDIX AARTIFACT APPENDIX 

ADGFuzz is a fuzzing framework for robotic vehicle (RV) flight control software, designed to detect three categories of bugs: software crashes, crashes to the ground, and route deviations. Our experiments were conducted on three types of RVs supported by ArduPilot: quadcopter (Copter), fixed-wing aircraft (Plane), and ground rover (Rover). This appendix provides detailed instructions on how to obtain, install, run, and verify the results of ADGFuzz. 

A. Description & Requirements 1) How to access: The source code of ADGFuzz is avail-able in a GitHub repository 2, which enables building the framework directly from source. Additionally, a pre-configured Ubuntu virtual machine (VM) 3 is provided to facilitate quick and reliable artifact evaluation. The artifact, including all necessary dependencies, datasets, and scripts, is packaged in the VM.  

> •

VM Credentials: Username: adgfuzz , Password: 1

2) Hardware dependencies: There are no special hardware requirements, a typical commodity computer should be suffi-cient to run ADGFuzz and reproduce its results. 

3) Software dependencies: A Linux operating system is required. Our artifact has been tested on Ubuntu 20.04. The Python version used is 3.8.10, and all external dependencies are listed in the requirements.txt file. 

4) Benchmarks: None. 

B. Artifact Installation & Configuration 

Recommended: Use the provided Ubuntu VM. 1) Import the VM, then start it and log in with the above credentials. 2) All required software and dependencies are pre-installed; you may proceed directly to the experiment workflow. 

Manual installation (optional): For manual installation, please refer to the GitHub repository 2, where detailed instruc-tions are provided. 

C. Experiment Workflow 

The workflow of ADGFuzz proceeds as follows: 1) Static Analysis: The system analyzes the RV source code to extract all assignment statements, building As-signment Dependency Graphs (ADGs). Each ADG is converted to a set of input terms, which are then mapped (via synonym and physical coupling tables) to Matched Input Subsets (MISs) accepted by the target RV control software. 2) Input Prioritization: The entropy of each MIS is calculated and used to guide probabilistic selection for testing. 

> 2https://github.com/wyunc/ADGFuzz.git
> 3https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16956667

3) Fuzzing Phase: For each fuzzing iteration, a fresh RV simulation instance (ArduPilot or PX4) is launched. The selected MIS is mutated to generate test cases, and three bug oracle threads monitor for runtime errors: software crash (e.g., arithmetic exception), vehicle crash (hits the ground), and route deviation (strays from planned path). 4) Post-Processing: All bug-triggering test cases are recorded for post-processing to identify and minimize root causes. Results are automatically deduplicated. 

Quick-start (“kick-the-tires”): A minimal test case is provided for rapid validation. 

Full experiment: Comprehensive testing is conducted using static analysis outputs for Copter, Plane, and Rover, with fuzzing running for up to 24 hours per configuration. 

D. Major Claims  

> •

(C1): ADGFuzz generates test cases based on the ADG constructed during the static analysis phase and fuzzes ArduPilot (A-E1).  

> •

(C2): ADGFuzz is capable of discovering new bugs across three types of RVs (refer to Table II and Figure 5), as demonstrated by the experiments in A-E2. 

E. Evaluation 1) Experiment (E1): [Quick Validation] [2 human-minutes, 5 compute-minutes]: Simplified instructions for the “Kick-the-Tires” stage. 

[Preparation] Start the virtual machine, navigate to the work/ADGFuzz directory, and execute source env_set.sh to initialize the environment. 

[Execution] 

python adgfuzz.py --initfile paths/testcopter/quicktest/ --rvtype copter --time 300 --out_path paths/quickresult/ 

[Results] This triggers a short fuzzing session using a minimal configuration. It repeatedly triggers a bug that causes a software crash. The resulting logs are stored in paths/quickresult/ .

2) Experiment (E2): [Full Fuzzing Evaluation] [2 human-minutes setup, 24 compute-hours]: Using ADGFuzz to test ArduPilot’s Copter module. Instructions for testing other RV types (Plane, Rover) are provided in the README.md 23 .

[Preparation] After launching the virtual machine, navigate to the work/ADGFuzz directory. 

[Execution] Open a terminal in the current directory and run 

fuzz.sh . The system automatically cycles through MISs and logs all detected bugs. 

[Results] This script first performs static analysis (approx-imately one minute), then starts the fuzzing process. After some time, you can inspect the discovered bug logs under the 

outfile/copter/ directory. At the end of each campaign, results are printed to the terminal and stored in log files and bug input files under outfile/ . Log summaries report the number and type of bugs (crash, deviation, instability). 19